
 
 TO MY LORD the Chancellor. 
 My Lord, 
 I Have understood of your deniall, for the publishing of a  Libell,  lately fram'd against me. And though (perhaps) the harme that I should have received thereby, would have been but small, yet my obligation unto you, never ceaseth to be great; and this argueth a speciall care in you of my tranquillity, not to suffer that any, the least noise should disquiet it. I know not ( my Lord ) if this be not to handle with too much nicenesse and tendernes, a man that makes profession of  Philosophy ; it were enough
 
that publike  Authority  should shelter me from the  tempest,  without exempting me from the  wind  and  dust,  and that it would guard my  Retrait  from  savage  beasts, without frighting away the  flies  also, and such importunate  Insects.  But ( my Lord ) the goodnesse which you reserve for me, extends farther then to ordinary justice. You take not only care for my  repose  amidst the  hurry  and tumult of  Europe,  but you would have the world also shew a  respect  unto my retirednesse, and that being  sequestred  from men. J should be also placed beyond the levell and reach of  Detraction.  Yet this Fiend did pursue S.  Hierome  even unto the Grotts of  Bethlehem,  and to the foot of our  Saviours  cradle, there  she  found him (as he relates himselfe) although he had
 
thought to  hide  himselfe. If this insolent  Thing  had no regard of an admirable  sanctity,  and a place  guarded  with  Angels,  me thinks a vulgar  innocence,  retired within an ill fortified village, must not expect any favourable treaty. But to passe from common conditions to the learned  Tribe ; If in all ages, there arose seditious spirits, that rebelled against the  Chieftaines  of  Arts  and discipline, and if in the memory of our  fathers,  it was spoken openly at  Paris,  that  Aristotle  was a simple  Sophister,  J think they deale courteously with me in this Country, if they be contented to call me a simple  writer.  That great blasphemer of the name of  Aristotle (my Lord)  was D.  Ramus,  who afterward, though he was a  Catholique,  was taken for a  Huguenot,  at the massacre;
 
And indeed, some did believe that God permitted this to come to passe by a just judgement; and that the  Tutelar  Angell of good  Letters,  took the pretext of  Religion,  for to revenge the injuries that were done to  Reason.  There is one this day alive in  Germany,  a petty Tyrant in Grammer, an enimy of common and generall verities, and an accuser of  Cicero ; who (not long since) hath put forth some observations, where he preferres a bill against his own Judge, and questions the precedency ever allowed unto that  Prince  of  Latine  Antiquity. So that ( my Lord ) the universall consent of all the world, strengthned by a prescription of 18. centuries of years, is not a sufficient title for to warrant the reputation of that  Roman,  against
 
the prevaricating quirkes of this  Barbarian.  Indeed, this is a businesse of no good example, but yet since it is so, and that it doth litle availe  Virtue,  to be consecrated by time, and to be crowned by the people, for to make it inviolable against the practises of some private Humors. There is no reason that I should complaine before so many  Worthies,  that have bin so ill intreated themselves, and that I should be had in any consideration, where  Aristotle  and  Cicero  are not in safety; an ordinary man should not make moan, for suffering the same destiny, which extraordinary Personages have undergone; and I cannot with modesty, desire or expect from you, that you should reforme the world for the love of me; nay, J know ( my Lord ) that this litle
 
disorder, is of some good use in a common-wealth; and it were to be wished, that malice would busy it selfe thus, about things of small importance, that it might not think of businesses of higher consequence. Those that have hitherto bestowed their pains, in depraving the sence of my words, and in falsifying my works, had (perhaps) ere this time, forged mens  Testaments,  and minted false coines; And he that now desires from you a priviledge, would have stood in need of a  Pardon,  it may be, if it had not been for me. It is better by farre, that injustice should exercise it selfe upon my books, than that it should vexe and  implead  against all that is good and sacred in a civill society; that unjust men should rather tosse and transpose words, invert and
 
pervert periods of speeches, than remove the bounds of lands, or demolish their  Neighbours  houses; To say the truth, this is the most innocent way that  vice  can imploy it selfe in, and I believe I have not a litle deserv'd from the common-wealth, for keeping at worke these ten years, such an infinite number of idle companions, who (certainly) would have been dangerous Commonwealths-men, if they had not chosen rather to have been ridiculous  Censors.  It is well, that the heat of their braines, is  exhaled  out this way, and that their intemperance takes this course; and that to prevent their fury, men give some scope and liberty to their folly. Permit them therefore this exercise ( my Lord ) they cannot choose but make use of their time, which they will
 
imploy farre worse, if you doe not permit them to imploy it thus. Permit  giddy  Youth to spend their heat and fury upon a senselesse subject, and a dead letter, which is not capeable either of joy or sorrow. As long as these  Pen-fencers  only beg the  Seale  of your  Authority,  be no niggard of the  Prince  his grace and favour, and abate something of your wonted severity and rigour. If it were anew & unusuall thing, it may be, I should be contented to have the first  Libell,  which branded me with injuries be suppressed, but since there is now a pretty  Library  of them, I am in a manner well pleased it should swell and increase, and I take a delight to build me a  moniment  with those stones, which  Envy  hath hurl'd at me, without doing me harme. I account
 
it no disgrace to be censur'd by some men, because I account it no credit to be favour'd by them: I intend not to canvasse for voices, nor labour a mysterious secret, whereby I may gaine the generall applause of the world. I have obtained what I desired, ( my Lord ) if I have obtained your approbation, as being derived from an un-erring  principle,  and from an  Jntelligence  most perfectly  illuminated.  God hath bestowed on you, a  soveraigne  judgement, before the  King  had committed to your hands, his  soveraigne  Justice. And you were most powerfull in Reason, before you were so in  Authority.  J need not have recourse to  this,  knowing that the  other  is no way against me, and I estime it more glory to me, to have pleased you, than I would
 
think it satisfaction to have my enimies proscribed by you. Your speeches of me upon every occasion so full of respect, your own  pourtraiture  that you bestowed upon me a yeare agoe, for a pledge of your Affection, your imparting to me the riches of your writings, I mean those writings, that were animated with the  spirit  of the  State,  and were full of the  greatnesse  of your  Master,  which seemed to me so farre to transcend the strength and vigor of this age, and so nearly resembling the  Roman Majesty.  In a word ( my Lord ) each moment of that happy afternoone, which I had the honour to passe away within your closet, are  priviledges,  which I doe value above that which you denied a  Fantasme,  or the Successor of  Philarchus.  I dare not rehearse
 
my other obligations, by which I stand bound unto you. You have herein injoyned me silence, and believe, that your favours would loose something of their purity, if my thanks should still attend them. Neverthelesse you must not stifle in me the intentions of an honest man, or smother the conceptions of gratefull thoughts; you have debarred me from divulging my acknowledgements, but you shall not debarre me from acquitting that secret part of duty, and from being, (at least in my soule) and that while I live 
 My Lord 
 Your most humble, most obliged and most thankfull servant  BALZAC. 
 From  Balzac  the
 1 of Iuly 1637. 

