
 
 To the Right Honorable SIR THOMAS ROVVE Knight, Gentleman, of the Privy Chamber, Chancelor & Treasurer of the most Noble Order of the Garter, His Majesty of Greate Brittaines Ambassador Extraordinary to the King of Denmarke and other Princes & States in Germany &c. 
 My Lord! 
 M Eaner & Baser Mettalls may passe Curant, vvhen once they have passed the Approbation of the Mint. There is noe other Lyfe in my Hopes of this Poore Things Acceptance abroade, but this that it beares Your Lordships Stāpe vpon it. T'vvas your Lordship, that first commanded de It to the Eare, and novv to the Eye. If to Either It did, or shall give little Content; It knovves vvhere to take Sanctuary. Only in this Jam richly satisfied, that it may publish to the VVorld your constant Zeale &   to your Country: for vvhose sake you consecrated a day of Publique Thancksgiving here. 
 To mention your Lordships Name any further: vvere to tell the vvorld There is a Sunne, vvhose
 Fellovv-Traveller you have bin. Both Hemispheares knovv you vvell, ād blesse you much. I knovv your Lordship too vvise and too Good to he flattered. And yet He that shall render you but halfe of your dues must needes incurre that Censure, in the Opinion of them (if there be any) that knovv you not. Hovv Greate & Good a Statesman you have allvvays approved your selfe in those your many & High employments abroade: vvhat Princes Court, or remotest Country doth not amply testifie? I neede not tell your ovvne Country, vvhat a True Patriot, nor your ovvne University, Oxon.  vvhat a Noble Benefactor, nor your Holy Mother the Church vvhat a Devout Sonne you have ever bin. 
 There is an Epitaph vpon the tombe of of a Demi-Founder of a Colledge much commended for its Fullnes & Modesty.  Fui Cajus, Gonvell. & Caj. Coll. in Camb.  I vvas Cajus.  Identicall Propositions, vvhere the Subject is high speake high, vvitnesse those of the Divine Ma ty . Let me only alter the Person, & the Tense (I pray God it may long & long be Present) and his Epitaph is your Elogie, as little & as much as can be sayd,  You are Sir Thomas Rovve.  One vvho lives much Desired (as any that carrys such a Head and such a Heart) and therefore must necessarily dye much Lamented. And so vvill your other selfe your Noble
 Consort. VVho as she is in her House the exact Antitype of Solomons Vertuous VVoeman Prov. 31. v. 10.  & deinceps:  so doe her vvorkes prayse her in the Gates, in Publique, as vvell Eleemosynall as Thera peuticall, I for beare to mention those many Church ornaments her Fingers hath vvrought, Her other Masculine & Heroicall vertues rayse Her above Her sexe. But I knovv I strike too long vpon this stringe to you Both, vvhose study is,  bene potiùs facere quàm audire  rather to  Doe vvell, then to Heare vvell.  I have done, vvhen I have only, supplicated the Divine Majesty for your Lordships Health. (for I knovv none that conque'rs such difficultys of Busines vvho vvrestles vvith such infirmitys & paines of Body) and for the continuance of a prosperous successe in your greate & vveighty Affaires, and for Both your Aeternall Happines, vvhither I knovv you tend as your Motto speakes. 
 So prays  TRAMITE RECTA.  Your Lordships  Most humble Devoted.  Chaplaine  MA. HARRIS 

