
 
 
 TO THE RIGHT  Worshipfull Alderman,  THOMAS SOAME, One of the Collonels of the City, and President of the  Artillery Garden, London.  As also, To Captain JOHN VEN, Vice President, M r.  WILLIAM MANBY  Treasurer.  And All other the worthy Captains of the City, and  Gentlemen of the Court of Assistants. 
 Much honour'd Sir, 
and
 Right worthy Souldiers, 
 T He GRECIANS were the first that out of  variety  of  action,  and long experience of  warre,  reduced the knowledge of  Arms  into an  Art ; giving precepts for the  ordering  of Arms, and the  embattelling of Armies. 
 
The ROMANES, who were their  Successours in time,  so were they also of their  precepts ; breeding and inuring their youth to  hardship,  the use of  Armes,  and the studies of the  Art Military.  So that by their countenance and  practice  therein, they not onely became  powerfull  and  terrible  to others: but in a word  reigned  as sole  Monarchs  of this  Mundane glory. 
 Plut. in Licur LICVRGVS the Law-giver to SPARTA, ordred that no  Epitaph  should be made, nor mans  name  remembred on his  Tombe,  except of him who had been a  Souldier ; as esteeming them onely worthy of  memory.  The  Persian  ARTAXERXES, preferred  Plut. in Pelo¦pida. PELOPIDAS, and the  Thebane  friendship before the rest of GREECE. because they were the  best Souldiers.  PHILIP of MACEDON,  King  of a poore Countrey, by  teaching  his  people  exactly the  exercise of Arms,  and practising a new  discipline,  not onely freed himself and Countrey from the  oppression  of his  enemies ; but also laid the  foundation  of the MACEDONIAN  glory. 
 By this, Right worshipfull, you may in part discern the great esteeme that  Antiquity 
 
made of those  studious  in this  Art.  And so please you to compare the  Histories  of the  passed times,  you may as in an  Index  behold how that the wel  disciplin'd  have alwayes been the very  Bulwarks and impalements  of their Countreys. Where to the contrary, neglect of  discipline,  and the  Art Military  have been alwayes the forerunners of destruction both to  Province and people.  I might be infinite in  examples  of this  nature,  but then I should make my  porch  larger then my  house.  Therefore let ROMES remissenesse be a  warning  to  posterity ; who as it had a slow  gradation  in its  arise  by  virtue,  so had it  degrees  of  falling,  by neglecting  discipline  and the  Art Military,  suffering it self to be  crushed  and  overtrodden  by every  Barbarous Nation. 
 This as it  reflects  upon us a  necessity,  so it demonstrates of how  necessary consequence  the  practice of Arms  is: inducing and inviting all  generous spirits  to endeavour the attainment of this  Military skill.  To acquire the which, the GRECIANS had their  Tactick  masters, the ROMANES their  Tribunes,  and other inferiour  Tutors 
 
which taught them in  Campus Martius ; and we our  Academies  and  Military Schooles  of  war,  witnes our ARTILLERY GARDEN with the MILITARY and MARTIALL grounds, wherein the  choice  and  best affected Citizens  (and Gentry) are practiced and taught the  Rudiments  of our  militia.  In times of  peace  so fitting them, that they may be able to  stand  in the day of  battell,  to  Gods glory,  their  own honours,  and their  Countreys good  But leaving these to your more  retyred  and  serious  considerations: be pleased to take notice that the GRECIANS, ROMANES, PERSIANS, and other  Nations,  had not onely their  trainings  abroad, but they had also their  Triumphs  at home in  Martiall and warlike wise all armed, treading out stately measures, to their Instruments of warre.  Such  Military exercises  as these have you formerly performed, which induced a Rich. Nicolls Oxon.  his Londons Artillery page 37 printed in  Anno  1616.   judicious writer  long since to set forth your  praises in elegant verse  as followeth. 
 Behold how  Londons armed Infantry, 
 Through  practise  in true  Rules of Souldery 
 By the  Drums martiall Musick  often led 
 The  Pyrrhic dance  do now  distinctly tread: 
 Which if  industriously  they do pursue, 
 And use that timely custome that is due 
 To  warlike practice,  in despight of hate, 
 Which evermore upon  desert  doth wait; 
 Times Finger  may  engrave  their  Industry, 
 Vpon  Fames Pillars  to  posterity. 
 And such as this, right  worthy Souldiers,  was our last  exercise  in  Merchant-Taylors Hall,  which is the  subject  of this book: the well  contriving  and  exact performance  whereof, induced many of the  judicious spectators  to desire copies: which through severall  transcriptions  became so imperfect, that I was requested by many to bring it to the  Presse,  so to preserve its  Native purity.  This I was the more willing to suffer, by reason no more were to passe the  print,  then barely might serve such  Gentlemen  who are desirous of them, being  members  of our own  Company.  As not being willing that so  rough  and  unpolisht  a  draught  should be exposed to the  publick view.  Therefore hoping your wonted favours,
 
and not  doubting  of your kinde acceptance; withall desiring, that as I have  freely  bestowed my  pains,  so you will as  lovingly passe  by my  errors,  whereby you will put a further obligation upon him that is already 
 Yours, WILL. BARRIFF. 

