
 
 TO THE RIGHT HONORABLE, JOHN LORD FINCHE, BARON OF FORDWICH, Lord Keeper of the great Seale of  England,  and one of his Majesties most honorable Privie Councell, &c. 
 MY LORD, 
 T His little Booke being written by so excellent a person as the Duke of  Rohan,  and treating of so weighty a Subject as the  Interest of the Princes and States of Christendome,  being received also with good esteeme by some judicious men, I thought it not amisse to communicate the same, imploying the advantage of so many spare minutes (during my abode in  France ) as to make it speake  English.  Then being invited to expose it to the light, to the publike view, the publike voyce taught it to implore your  Lordships  protection, whether be considered the  quality  of the Author, the  gravity  of the Matter, or
 
 Knowledge  in the Originall wherein it was penned. For as the Author was noble, and eminent in his place; in like manner is your Honour, shining in your orb as a starre of the first Magnitude, lending a most benigne and gracious influence to the just causes of the oppressed, distressed, fatherlesse, and widow. The Matter is of politick maximes, and divers remarkable occurrences in sundry Republikes: and to whom now can this be more aptly addressed then to a principall Minister of State, in whom Prudence, Science, and Integrity (in a sweet harmony) doe all concurre to make a perfect conduct of affaires, for the glory of God, the honour of the King, and the good of this Church and Common-wealth? Lastly, the Originall from whence it was derived, being  French:  your admired knowledge, and unparallell'd expressions in the same language, may speake you as well a  patterne  in the originall, as a  Patron  in this translation. For my owne part (if it may be permitted to say any thing of my selfe) I speak confidently  (My Lord)  with your permission, that albeit I had not so much vanity as to perswade my selfe that any thing could proceed from me, worthy your reception, or advantagious to your Honour,
 
(since that my act herein shewed more of duty then merit, and its insufficiencie demanded rather pardon then remuneration;) yet had I some kinde of assurance, that a favourable acceptation would entertaine what I most humbly present, seeing the most heroick minde disdaines not the meanest services, but like the Sunne (that nobler Planet) spreads his indifferent rayes upon all, as well on abject, as glorious objects. These and such like considerations made me adventure (but with all reverence and humility) to prefix here your most Honorable Name, that thereby this Book might live; and withall incessantly beseeching him whose name is  I AM,  to preserve and continue Yours in perpetuall  being,  in all honour and prosperity, and to  write  your  name  in a larger volume,  the Book of life.  For which end the  Lord  be still your  Keeper,  and  Seale you with  that great  Seale, the holy Spirit of promise, to the day of redemption.  So prayeth 
 My Lord, 
 Your Lordships most humbly devoted HENR. HUNT. 

