
 
 
 TO The Right Worshipfull, PETER SAINTHILL of Bradnynch, Esquire, one of the Masters of His Majesties Court of Chancery, Justice of Peace for the County of Devon, &c. an eminent example of Piety, and worth; the happinesse of Heaven and Earth. 
 Much honored Sir, 
 A Fter I had (though not without many modest reluctations, first, from within) obteyned leave of my selfe, to make those thoughts, which have already, in some part, passed, in a transient sound, by the eares of some, legible, in a larger Volume, by the eyes of many; I could not bethinke
 
mee of a Nobler Patronage, than from your selfe; a worthy, not more highly placed upon the  [hill]  of deserved Eminence; then (as your Name proclaimes you in your conspicuous, and devout practices) a most accomplished, and exemplary  [Saint.] 
 My engagements to that Mr.  Peter Tayler.  good friend (whom I have have not lost, only seene to be sent before me to his heaven) whose decease gave an hint unto these slender, yet (as my hope is) usefull meditations, were such; as that, methought, I could not suffer my respects to yeeld up with him, on a suddain, their last Ghost; nor one grave to swallow both his corpse, and memory: I tooke therefore this cue of opportunity, as, to testifie my respectivenesse to him, and to those surviving, who most neerely related to him, so withall, to leave some publique monument of all gratitude (most worthy Sir) to you; not more endeared unto him dissolved, in his life time, than rich in many favors to my selfe; which were therefore the more Noble, and of higher value, for that, they utterly transcended all deservingnesse in me: should I attempt on this occasion,
 
to blazon the armes of your eximious worth, resplendent in a Coate, (whose crest must needs be glory) embellished by so various graces, (which, like the [ Can.  1.11.  golden] borders of the Spouse, [overlaid] with [silver,] having the [best] sides [inwards,] in a close integrity; set you beyond the reach of flattery, or the shocke of envy;) alas! the best Heraldry of mine eloquence would here be posed; and in so copious, and full a theam my oratory quite languish under the povertie of but-apt expressions: give me leave then to admire, what I am not able by mine insufficient quill, to amplifie enough in you: Let this suffice; your verie Name so well resembled in your Conveniunt rebus [nomina] saepesius.  actions hath made you a perfect Mirror to the West: Lord! what a blessed prospect is it? thus to view greatnesse, and goodnesse, as righteousnesse and peace, to Psal.  85.10.  claspe each other; or, like  Davids  Palace, and Gods Tabernacle, to dwell Psal.  132.13, 14.  together, upon one Sion! Goe on, Noble Sir, to credit your Countrey, (the love whereof is like the orient rayes of the brightest Taper of the Firmament, universally displayed upon you) by your worthy undertakings:
 
persist couragiously to be, not more a promoter, than (as you have long beene) a Matth.  5.9.  maker of peace and amity; it shall winne you Rom.  15.13  peace of soule, and carry you upon the wings of honour, as another  Noahs  Dove, to the Arke of that happinesse, into which the Isa.  9.6.  Prince of peace himselfe shall Gen.  8.9.  receive you (out of a troublesome and stormy world) by the armes of his mercy: Continue still to make your House a Temple, where the dayly incense of Devotion ascends up as a rich perfume (sweetened by the Rev.  8.3, 4.  Angell of Gods presence) unto Heaven; and where each tongue to me seemed as a severall Organ, to sound out Gods praises. Be not Gal.  6.9.  weary to daigne countenance and encouragement to the 1.  Tim.  6.11.  men or God, who 1  Tim.  5.17.  labour in the Word and Doctrine: Loe! we need such Patrones to support us under the unworthy affronts of carnall and besotted earthwormes, who sleight and under-value even the Matth.  7.6.   Pearles  of Heaven it selfe, because (which is their grosse stupidity and 2.  Cor.  4 4.  blindnesse) brought to them by us but in 2.  Cor.  4.7.  earthen vesells. 
 This poore piece of my Labours, (in the Lords great Matth.  9.37.  Harvest) humbly prostrates it selfe, to be shrowded under the wings of your favour; vouchsafe to cover it by them; it shall, under such a protection, slight the meagre aspects of any, whether malecontented, or malevolent dispositions. 
 The Sermon was, at first indeed, in Preaching, but as that 1.  King.  18.44, 45.  little Cloud, like to a mans hand, seene by  Elijahs  servant from the top of Mount  Carmel;  but it's now swollen, and womb'd-out into a bigger one; from whence, if but some few drops distill, to refresh the Lords Psal.  68.9.  inheritance, I shall rejoyce in that good God of mine, who hath thus farre 1.  Tim.  1.12.  enabled me, after my Rom.  12 3.  measure, for his weighty service. 
 Nothing remaines, but that I earnestly implore the full blessings of Gods both hands to be powred upon you; and, with you, upon your vertuous Consort and Familie; and that the Heb.  13.20, 21.  God of peace, who brought againe from the dead our Lord  JESUS,  that great Shepherd or the Sheepe, through the blood of the everlasting covenant,
 
make you perfect in every good work, to doe his will; working in you that which is well-pleasing in his sight; through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory, for ever and ever,  Amen. 
 Your most true honourer, in my thankefull observances, much devoted,  William Sclater. 
 Exon,  12.  Febr.  1639. 

