
 
 
 TO THE RIGHT WORSHIPFULL Doctor PETERSON, Dean, and Canon residentiary of St. Peter in Exeter, Chaplaine in ordinary to his Majesty, &c. my worthily honoured friend, the exuberancie of all blessings. 
 Reverend Sir, 
 T Hat which was graced with your audience, in preaching, with your thanks, when preached, be pleased now to honour with your noble Patronage in print; which is a kind of preaching too, that, as 2 Sam. 18.23.   Ahimaaz  did  Cushi,  and Saint John 20.4.   John  Saint  Peter,  doth [out-run] the vocall, by so much farther, as it can lengthen out its strides (as  Procrustes  stretched his guests, in Plutarch. in vita Thesei.   Plutarch,  that were for his bed otherwise too short) to reach it self unto the hands, and eyes of those good Catholike Christians, unto whose ears my voice, had it bin Stentorian, or as a Mar. 3.17.  Boanerges, could not come: To preach by the pen, which in the expression of  Clemens
  Alexandrinus  is,  , is as usefull sometimes as to doe so by the tongue; and this instruction by the —  hand, like to a wedge of gold beaten into a plate, spreads more abroad, and often with as large emolument to the Church, as that which is by lively . Clemens Alex. lib. prim. Strom.  speech, or sermocination. I may seeme perchance by this to light a candle to the Sun, and to cast my spoonfull into that vast Ocean of knowledge, which we (though sitting upon the very lees and dregs of time for Atheisme and ill practice, which with bleeding hearts we view abroad, and wonder at) have lived to see make up that prophesie of great Daniel, who foretold it should
[ Dan. 12.4.  abound]; and of the Kingly Prophet, whose prediction is now at its full height, and   of accomplishment, God gave the word, and great are the company of the Psal. 68.11.  Preachers; when thus comparatively I lay me in the ballance, I finde most others to preponderate; sith I must on the generall audit of my selfe, confessedly, with Paul, bring in my account with 2 Cor. 12.11  I am nothing.   , and with good  Calvin,  mine empty Calvin. Inst. lib. 2. cap 5. sect. 13. in fine.   , saying of all my best parts, and performances, as S.  Andrew  of the five loaves and two fishes,  ; alas! John 6.9.  What are these? They reach not, as I reade of  Davids 
  later Worthies, unto the dignity of the 2 Sam. 23.19.  former, who did not more outstrip in worth, then  Saul  did overgrow in 1 Sam. 9.2.  stature his under brethren, or  Zacheus  [ Luke 19.4.  climb'd] up on the Sycamore, o'relooke the company in the way below with Christ: But when againe I meditate, that even a paire of Luke 2.24.  Turtles, and the two Mar. 12.42, 43.  Mites, where there was no more to give, were valued by that God (who measureth more by quality, then by Non de patrimonio, sed de animo opus ejus examinans, & considerans non quantum sed ex quanto dedisset.  S. Cypr. lib. de opere & cleemosyn. sect.  14.  quantity) as a rich oblation, and a large additament to the common corban, and the treasurie of the Church; and when I think that my little light, though but as a candle, or a glimmering ray of that orient Mal. 4.2.  Sun of righteousnesse, is given, and derived to me, not to be hidden under the Mat. 5.15.  bushell whether of covetousnesse, or obscurity, nor to be set under the Luke 8.16.  bed of lazinesse, or sluggish ease, much lesse to be dipped in the liquour of what is [ Isa. 5.20.  called] good, but
[is] the worst of fellowship, till it be quite extinct; but as Saint  Paul  saith even of the commonest gift of the Spirit, that its bestowed, not for ostentation of the haver, but for to 1 Cor. 12.7.  profit withall the whole Church; Why should I be shie to pay, though but my Eccles. 1.7.  rivulet, as in tribute to this Ocean; and to improve, though but my (one) talent, to the best advantage of my Lord and Master Christ, who
  is wont to give to him that Luke 8.18.  hath (and having doth employ) the Mat. 25.28.  more, by how much more the good alreadie given spreadeth, and doth become diffusive to communitie. I would not therefore with the Spider weave this web to thrust it to a corner, but with the Silk-worme rather spinne my thread so that it might help to cloath at least some younger children of the Church. I must confesse the Presse may now well begin to surfet, and as Gen. 49.14.   Issachar  to couch down under the burdens of those sons of  Anak,  those Giant-like voluminous writers on this my subject: those are your bulky Elephants that with whole 1 Mac. 6.37.  castles-full of paper on their backes, occasion the common Readers to keep aloofe; their purse-strings are too weake to tye and hold them, and the acies of their eie-sight hebetated by so too-big objects: I have not written —Tenuis mihi campus aratur.  such Iliades after  Homer:  Many before me have done worthily this Est illud magnae fertilitatis opus,  Ovid. Trist. lib. 2.  larger way in Ephratah, and for it are become, as the people in the gates told  Boaz,  very Ruth 4.11.  famous in our Bethleem. I have chosen to present my Mother-Church, as Saint  Austin  did  Laurentius,  with an enchiridion onely, as having limmed out what is more copiously pourtraied by others, into a smaller draught, and so doe offer it, as were  Homers  Iliades to that mightie Monarch, in a
  Nutshell to her. I must expect (having thus hoised up my saile to steare amaine) some surges, some whistlings of your windy spirits, that like to summer flies will blow corruption on the sweetest of provision: Wee are fallen into those times wherein all Sermons are most sure of censure, most of all unsure of practice; so that when our Sermon is ended, wee can hardly say our Sermon is done; wee heare more often of our owne good voices, elocution, memorie, then of our hearers holy doings: My hope is not so high as to please all, nor my intention so factiously sordid, as to displease any; yet I cannot but suspect the worst, for that whereas I hitherto (mine Anno
[tricessimo] carnis assumptae, Salvator ad signa, & miracula, & doctrinam usus est potestate— non antea, quia hac aetate tempus doctrinae insinuatum est rationabile; & ante has metas perperam invadi magisterium data est forma; quia non competit annis impubibus sedere in cathedra, &c.  Cypr. de jejun. & tentat. Christi, Sect.  1.  age not daring farther) have beene onely as a Standing in a Faire set up before anothers doore, and have beene read but in a Preface to some bookes published of my fathers by me; I must now stand alone upon my owne bottome by my selfe: and yet not all alone, but as the learners hand, though framing characters, yet by direction of the Scrivener that holds and guides it, so I have singly vented nothing, or at all steared the least point farther then as I have beene guided by the proper starres and cynosure of the worthiest
  in our Church of England; whose names are now all noted in my margin, which I could not mention in my preaching, lest I should have lost my Sermon in so large quotations. Honoured Sir, amidst the many dangers it is like to meete with, vouchsafe to patronize this my first publick Theologicall Essay by your countenancing of it: I shall [so] lesse feare either the spleen or gall of any Reader. One  Plato,  saith Marcil. Ficin. in vita Platonis.  Unus Plato plus est quàm Atheniensis populus.   Marcilius,  is worth all Athens else; one pearle out-vies a thousand pebles; one such  Mecoenas,  so acute an  Aristarchus  of all learning (who approves) beares down before him, like an Indian Hurraca, all the sullen opposition of the whole droves of Momus. 
 Should I here take occasion to blazon your so many excellent graces, which be like the Spouses flock of sheep which came up from the washing, even-shorne, each one being, not like the Pelican in the wildernesse, alone, but every one bearing Cant.  4.2.  twinnes, and none is barren among them: Should I pen-down in this Epistle that those which are in others rare, and singular, are in you but ordinarie and common, I should but make that legible by your owne, which hath long since been visible to the eies of others that have truly known you. But though your various graces (as being all links of one and the same chain) might well claime
  as those in the Scholiast. in Thucyd.  Lacedaemonian army, a priviledge all of them to be Captaines, and to lead; yet that which is, as Davids Tachmonite, the 2  Sam.  23.8.  chiefe among these Captaines, and which, as King  Lemuels  vertuous daughter, doth Pro.  31.29.  excell the rest, is your humble and admired Patience: This is that bulwarke which as a Mat.  7.25.  rocke returnes the billowes of malevolence in froth, and makes the shafts of the meagrest envie to bee split in vaine: This is that which doth, and shall preserve you, as  Alpheus,  still untainted by the washings of the bitterest Sic tibi cùm fluctus subterlabêre Sicanos, Doris amara suam non intermisceat undam.  Virg. Eclog.  10.   Doris,  till you salute at last the limpid  Arethusa,  and sweet fountaine of all blisse. I will assure you, noble Sir, as the great Doctour of the Gentiles told his endeared Corinthians, my heart is much 2  Cor.  6.11.  enlarged towards you, and my respectfull thoughts be most voluminous, though now my quill (much like mine oratorie, too jejune and dry) hath thus epitomized my expressions in a line or two. 
 But I perceive, as Jordan above his bankes, the measure of my affection hath over-swoln the bounds of an Epistle: What remaines now, but that I must implore the favours of Heaven on you, and that you may still persist to beautifie the seat you sit in, to credit the West, and to adorne the Gospell: Mee,
  both your selfe, and your so rarely vertuous consort, (a genuine branch of a most holy, and devout stocke) shall ever have, though your meanest friend, yet one that hath resolved to print himselfe 
 Your most true honourer, in my faithfull observances much devoted, WILLIAM SCLATER. 
 Exon.
 May  11. 1639. 

