
 
 
 TO THE  WORSHIPFVLL  IOHN BLACKVVELL Esquire, his Majesties  Grocer,  comfort, and happy imitation of the deceased. 
 Sir, 
 W Hilst Ministers preach Funerall Sermons, they find the wind setting in their faces from their auditors: some thinke that too little, others that too much, and
  most that what is spoken concerning the dead is but formality or flattery; They report that the  Aethiopians  doe picture Angels black, and Divels white, and I thinke that they Amandus Polanus Syntag. Theol lib. 20 c. 17.  justly suffer censure who doe knowingly  call evill good and good evill:  yet I deeme, that meete and just praise is a due to Gods Saints departed, and Salatia vivorum, non suffragia mortuorum. Orationes Aug.  though they add not to their honour and happinesse being in Heaven; yet they may proove both comforts and instructions to the living left upon
  earth; especially to such who forgoe those with griefe whom they for a time enjoyed with love; I doe not send the living to the dead with Papists, yet let mee tell you, that there are these things comfortable to the living from the dead. 1. Their holinesse of life, and comfort in death, grounded evidences for our hope of their future happinesse: And 2. That there shall be a time of meeting and enjoying each other againe at the last day, such being not lost but gone before
  us; add to this the good of their examples (which are of great force) for the teaching of posterity; who may take them for their patterne, and so resemble them in their religious courses, that they may seeme to survive in them: both these ends are my aime in publishing this Sermon, and with it the just testimony which I gave unto your late loving and beloved Wife, whom death hath freed from all sinfull and sorrowfull evils, and brought to the enjoyment of her God in Heavens
  happinesse; shee well knew that the world could never make her fully happy; and that Christians are never in their best condition, till that they are in their heavenly condition; I desire not to renew your griefe, but to shew that I had a share in your losse of that Iewell laid up by God in the highest Heavens; whom all your care and cost (which did demonstrate you to be a loving Husband) could not longer continue on earth: whilst shee was yours, you did (I confesse) what could
  be done for her credit, comfort, and continuance, and thereby deserved from her that praise which often shee gave of you to my selfe and others; but being gone, there remaines a double monument of her; one of her owne, for shee hath left with you those in whom shee liveth, whom (I need not say to you) you must love as a Father, and a little the more for the Mothers sake; another of mine in this Publication, wherein her memory is made pretious among the
  Saints, and perpetuated unto all posterity; a Worke done by mee upon your owne earnest intreaty, and therefore cannot but be welcome unto you. You have your desire, let mee have mine. Thinke of your losse; and remember your selfe, and place, in which God hath set you; doing things so, that your comfort within, and credit without, may still be upheld in the Churches of God, amongst whom you have obtain'd an excellent name: I need
  to say no more to you, but that I am 
 Your much obliged friend, Io: Sedgvvick. 
 From my house in S.  Dunstances  in the  East,  London. 

