
 
 To the Vertuous, and excellent Lady, the Countesse of  Arundell. 
 MADAM, 
 T HE causes why I make this Dedication apart to Your Ladyship, are divers. The first is, that sweete Lord (the lamented Subject of this Booke) in whose praise, my Muse ending, will expire like a  Phoenix  in a Perfume.
 
Hee was extreamly oblig'd to Your Ladyship in particular; and therefore You deserve particular and infinite thankes from all of his Blood and Name, of which I am one, who have ever had your Vertues in admiration. The second is, that You, Madam, are none of those  Romance  Ladyes, who make Fiction and Folly their Study and Discourse, and appeare wise onely to Fooles, and Fooles to the wise. By reading nothing else but Vanity, they become nothing else themselves. They make a more diligent enquiry after the deedes of Knights, and Ladies errant, than after the Acts of Christ and his Apostles. The losse of their time is their just punishment, in
 
that they spend a whole Life in reading much, and yet is that much, nothing. But you, Madam, are capable of the most profound grave Misteries of Religion, and daily peruse and meditate Bookes of Devotion. You despise the bold Adventures of those Female Follies, and piously surveigh the lives of the Female Saints. You have render'd yourselfe a most accomplish'd Lady on Earth, by imitating our blessed Lady which is in Heaven; who as she was here the first Saint of the Militant  Church,  so is she there, the first of the  Church  Triumphant; having learn't that she spent al her houres in works of Charity, you trace her steps, knowing that Shee, and Vertue,
 
trod but one path. Hence it comes, that you are at no time so angry, as with the losse of an oportunity to succour the distressed; and that you are as indefatigable in doing good as heaven in motion. Hence it is, that the impetuous force of a Torrent may bee as well stopped, as the constant flood of your goodnesse; which never stayes till it have water'd, and relieved all within its Ken, commendable either for Knowledge, or Vertue. My third, and last scope in placing your Character in the Front of this Treatise is, that like a Starre it may strike a lustre throughout this Booke, and by its light chase away the darknesse Oblivion would else cast upon it.
 
Questionlesse it will breede a holy emulation in any of your Sexe, who shall here learne that there is a Lady, whose vertues are come to the Age of Consistence, and can grow no further; and from whom, not only her posterity, but her Ancestors, also receive honour; They, in this resembling the Morne, who though she precedes the Sun, receives her splendour from him. Thus sweet, thus excellent, Madam, I have received you from those who have beene truly happy in being daily witnesses of all your Words and Actions. I conclude with this protestation made in me by Truth her selfe, that I am so constant an honourer (I had almost said an Adorer) of
 
Vertue whereever I finde it, especially when that in estimable Diamond is set in Honour (as it is in you, Madam) that should I round the World in your Ladiships service, I should esteeme it a Voyage far short of Your Merit, and my Duty; and that I should not thinke the highest Title Imagination can reare, a greater addition to me, than is the submissive stile of 
 Your Ladyships most humble loyall Servant,
ANTHONY STAFFORD. 

