
 
 To my much honour'd Lord,  Thomas  Lord  Howard,  chief  of the  Howards,  Earle of  Arundell and  Surrey,  Earle Marshall of  England,  Knight of the most Noble Order of the Garter, and one of his Majesties most Honourable Privy Councell, &c. 
 My very good Lord, 
 T He Fame of your Lordships Heroick Vertues invites me to present to your gracious acceptance this Treatise, of which Honour is the Theam. Indeed
 
to whom more fitly can shee make her addresse, then to your Lordship, through whose Veins she runs, from whose Bosom shee flows, in whose Actions shee shines, and by whose Protection shee is secured from the insolent Affronts of the Vulgar? Being distressed, shee makes You her faire Sanctuarie, being wounded, she makes you her soveraigne Balme. Nay, (which draweth neere to a wonder) many put their Honour into Your hands, esteeming it more safe there, then in their owne. This is the first cause of my Dedication; The next is, that the true Child of Honour (the deplored Subject of this Book) was a Debtor to Your Lordship for his Education, whose Advancement in Vertue, Honour, and Estate; You made the greatest part of Your Studie. And,
 
to say the Truth, where could such a Guardian be found for him as Your Lordship, since between the renowned Ancestours of You both, Vertue, and Bloud hath long since engendred a strict Friendship, and between whom there was a neare similitude of good and evill Destiny, both having amply shared of Infortunity, and Glory? I may adde, that there cannot be a more lovely Sight, then to behold an ancient, lofty Cedar sheltring with his Branches from the Rage of weather, a Young one of the same Kinde, aspiring to the same Height; had not the Frost of Death, immaturely nipt this Noble Plant, it were an Heresie to doubt that he would have flourisht under the care of a  Lord,  whose Vertue is too immense for one Region to containe, and
 
whose Perfections are so many, and so transcendent, that they are able not onely to adorn these more Polisht Parts of the World, but to civilize also the more Barbarous, and to make an  Athens  of  Madagascar.  The Oblation of my Teares, and Supplications to God, not availing to keep him here, J have sent my Vowes after him, and have given him a Funerall Equipage consisting of the Testimonies of brave, good, and knowing Men, which will eternize him on Earth, as his Goodnesse will in Heaven. I, confesse freely, I was unwilling to leave him to the Mercy of some grosly ignorant  Chronologer  of the Times, in whose Rubbish, Posteritie might unhappily have found him lying more ruin'd then his glorious  Predecessours  were by the
 
Tyranny of Time, or the Cruelty of Princes. Now in the last place, I must most humbly beseech Your Lordship to take notice, that his whole Name have made an affectionate, but an imprudent Choice of me to be their weak Oratour, to render Your Lordship submissive, and due thanks for the Good You did, or intended him, and withall to make You a Religious Promise of their Prayers to God, and their Prayses; to Men, as in particular, I doe of the vowed faithfull service of 
 Your Lordships most humble, loyall Servant,
Anthony Stafford. 
 

