
 
 
 
 
 TO THE RIGHT WORSHIPFUL, Sir RICHARD YOUNG, Knight Barone  the Worshipfull, M r . GILBERT HARRISON, Alderman; M • . ROBERT EDWARDS, Deputy of the R  Worshipfull Company of Merchant Adventurers▪ M • . H H WINDHAM, M • . EDWARD FOORD, M r . HUMPHR: BERINOTON; MERCHANTS: And the rest of the worthy Inhabitants of the Parish of  Aldermanbury,  LONDON: Saving Health, true Riches, and eternall Happinsse. 
 Right Worshipfull, Beloved, and Christian friends▪ 
 A S it was in the building of the Temple, many hands were imployed in the raising of that glorious Structure:  Solomon  did raise a tribute of men
 
for the work, and they were all imployed according to their severall abilities; some did work in gold, in silver, in brasse, in iron, in purple and blew silk; some did hew and square, others did bear and carry the stones and timber, to the raising of that sacred pile: so it is in the Church of God, of which that materiall house was a cleer representation; there is no man so mean, but may be some way usefull to the house of God; those that cannot work in gold, and silver, and silk, yet may cut and hew; and those that can do neither, yet may carry burthens. This latter is the task that I have undertaken;  v z.  To
 
serve the Church, in bringing forth this provision which is here presented to you, of another mans cost indeed, yet not without some labour and care of my own, to prepare the table, and set things in order before you. I am the rather incouraged in it, because I know that God can as well serve himself of my labour in this, as of the skill and ability of the learned Author: and if in this I may be a helper of the joy of Gods Church, I have wherein for to rejoyce. 
 These insuing Sermons were first preached unto you, they were yours in the delivery, and are yours of Right, as conceived
 
and brought forth for you; and I know not how you should lose your Right in the publishing of them, but rather owe Patronage, Apology, Harbour and Recommendations; therefore I have made bold to prefix your Names before them, and so to publish them for the good of the Church; being well assured, that you will not grutch this communication, of your own right and interest in them, to others. 
 For the Author, hee needs not my Candle to light his Sun, nor my Pen to make new impressions of honour and love in your hearts, who have so fully known his Doctrine, manner
 
of Life, Purpose, Faith, Long-suffering, Charity, Patience, Humility, &c. 
 I may say of this posthume Birth, that the Author died, as  Rachel,  in travell with it; and it may well be called  Benjamin,  the son of his Right hand: whil'st he was a carrying of you up into the Mount, to shew you the land of Promise, God took him, and by Invisible messengers, caried him to the fruition of Eternall Blessednesse: he is taken out of your sight, and if you desire to finde him, you must aspire unto the heavenly Paradise, by walking in that tract which he hath in his Doctrine here chalked out unto
 
you; and in those steps of his religious and zealous conversation, which he hath walked in before you. 
 But lest you should let these things slip; this booke may be your continuall  Remembrancer,  in this, hee being dead, yet speaketh. But his labour will be lost, and my undertaking fruitlesse, except you be pleased to make the practise of these things your trade, and the meditation of them your Recreation. 
 Here you may see wherein true happinesse doth consist: the right placing or misplacing of happinesse is the Ruder of a mans life, the fountaine of his
 
well or ill doing; according to which, men take their marks, and shoot right or wrong, in all the actions of their lives: you will be mistaken, if you seek it in these outward things, it is only to be found in God; there is no other independant good, neither is there any other good that can be communicated to all the heirs of Blessing, but only God; that which all must possesse, and that together, must needs be some infinite thing. It will then be worth your while, to call off your affections from the world, and to abate of your eager pursuit after the things of this life: you are not made for Riches, but they are made for
 
you: the Bee will forsake the Flower that yeelds her no Hony; the fruit that the World affords you, is but like that which grows upon the banks of the dead Sea, a fair apple, which under a red side, contains nothing but dust: it will be your wisdom, not to cumber your selves about many things, when one thing is needfull: the saying of the Roman Generall to the souldier that kept the tents, when he should have bin fighting in the field,  Non Amonimium diligentes,  will be used of God, if when he cals us to seek after true Happinesse, yet vve busie our selves onely about things of an inferiour Alloy;
 
God will not like such busiebodies: our chiefest care and pains should be bestowed, in the attaining of that which is our chiefest Happinesse; if you be industrious in this, your labour will not be in vain: you must think of Religion as of trading, which will bring no gain, unlesse diligently follovved and practised: Arise therfore, and be doing, and the Lord will be with you. 
 Give me leave to tell you, first, that God hath done much for you, exalted you to heaven, in regard of the means: It is true, your eyes have seen worthy Lights, shining in their life and Doctrine, and by death
 
extinguished; and yet your losse hath not been more bitterly lamented, than in a good measure graciously supplied; the causes of your hope and joy, have been in a good proportion equivalent to your grief and losse. 
 Secondly, GOD looks for much from you;  viz.  an adorning of the Gospel, and walking worthy of it, in a holy, fruitfull and obedient conversation: such favours bestowed, must needs raise great expectations; and this expectation frustrated, doubles the judgment. But I hope better things of you, and such as accompany salvation. 
 You did receive the Author
 
with so much love and honour, as that you cannot but countenance this Posthume Birth, which was first conceived, and brought forth for you; & your selves being witnesses, contains no other things, than what you have heard and learnt: and so, though others should deny it, yet you must give unto it, Harbour and Intertainment. Therfore I have, in the name of the Widow of the Reverend Author, intitled you unto it. If it shall be approved usefull to the Church, fruitfull to you, & beneficial to any, I shall rejoyce; my prayers shal be for their successe, and for your happinesse. 
 Yours, in the service of your Faith,  A. B 

