
 
 
 TO ALL SVCH FAMOVS WORTHIES as are both able, and zealous Patrons of the Church, and State, and of such as endeavour the good thereof; Grace, Mercie, and Peace be multiplied from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ. 
 Right worthie of Renowne, 
 T HIS is a Piece which craves your Patronage. It containes nothing but what is just and honest; and yet is like enough to meet with such as shall oppose it: For I both know
 and finde it true by experience, that hee who sides not with the humours of the common multitude, incurres the  odium  of not a few. And indeed my comfort is, 'twas alwaies so:  Obsequium amicos, veritas odium parit.  That great Apostle could have said as much; Galae.  4.15.16.  for whereas he remembers the good will that the  Galatians  once bore towards him, he findes the case quite altered, and is now become their enemie, because he telleth them what is truth: Not that he ever taught them other, but because hee presseth the more earnestly, where he fears or findes their reluctation. They had (as well appeareth) a minde to go astray; and he not yeelding to them, but directing otherwise, is slighted for his labour. But if it be good (as he also speaketh) to be zealously affected alwaies in a good thing; 'tis fit that men submit and learne with patience, till they come to the knowledge of what is good; otherwise their zeale cannot but be preposterous, and violent passions take place of true and
 righteous informations. This is that which I only ayme at, a rectifying of such as walke amisse: and if herein my poore endeavours may but finde a curteous acceptation, I account my paines as much as nothing; being alwaies willing to promote what I can, the happie prosperitie both of the Church and State. When therefore this Booke which I now send abroad, shall be so happie as to kisse any of your hands; be pleased to shelter it under the zealous wings of your favourable protection. And so praying God to blesse you alwaies; I rest devoted to do you the best service that I can, 
 Iohn Swan. 

