
 
 
 TO THE RIGHT WORSHIPFVLL S r.   JOHN HOBART,  Of  Blickling  in the County of  Norfolke,  Knight Baronet, one of his Majesties Deputies Lieutenant, Justice of Peace and Quorum, Captaine and Colonell of part of his Majesties Forces there: Prime Heire of the Right Honourable, and reverend Judge, S r .  Henry Hobart,  Knight and Baronet, Lord chiefe Justice of his M ties  Ho rable  Court of Common Pleas.  John Welles  Wisheth much increase of Honour, and all true comfort in this life, a blessed end, and eternall happinesse in the life to come. 
 I  Have presumed to dedicate these my labours unto you, Right noble sir, the off-spring and undoubted Heire of my
  noble friend your father deceased; and inheritour of his Lands and Livings, and the chiefe of that great and renowned family. And as you doe inherit his Lands and Livings, so my prayer is, that you may inherit him in his integrity, zeale, & wisdome. I speak not this out of doubtfull feare, but in officious love; and herein take notice, I beseech you, of this happinesse and blessing of God, cast upon you, not only to be the chiefe of this great and worthy family; but also take notice of the true cause of the worth and greatnesse of your Ancestours, and
  imitate them therein, and then inheriting their worth together with their wealth, you shall also most undoubtedly enrich your selfe with the obsequious attendance and hearty affection of your native Countrymen, and so grow in grace and favour with God and man. For which cause I have presumed to present you with this Tractate, and to publish the same under the protection of your name, hoping of your courteous acceptance; and beseeching you to grant it your favourable protection and Patronage: which though it be but indifferently
  contrived, yet strongly warranted, for it hath the undoubted truth of God for its authority. There may be many Tractates found tending to these ends; but all that I have seene of others, though they may bee more pithy, yet certaine I am, this is more plaine; I trust not unpleasant, nor unprofitable. God give all grace to make right use of it. And so commending my labours, with all the desired good that may be unto your good Worship, and both you and it to the speciall grace and protection of the Almighty, who is aboundantly able to
  fill your heart with grace, to crowne your daies with blessing, and to finish them with eternall comfort, life, and glory,  Amen.  I rest, a true desirer of your best good, 
 And your Worships in all Christian duty to be commanded,  JOHN WELLES. 
 October  22. 1638. 

