
 
 
 TO THE RIGHT WORSHIPFVLL THE MAIOR, THE VVORSHIPFVLL THE ALDERMEN AND BVRGESSES,  AND THE REST OF THE INHABITANTS OF THE TOWNE AND PARISH OF BANBƲRY. 
 Right Worshipfull,  &c. 
 A S I could not but congratulate my owne and your happinesse in the injoyment of your worthy Pastours labours, so both I and many other Christians do now condole your misery in the losse of the good Authour. The greater your happinesse was, the greater now is your misery, and I feare many
 
of you prized not the blessing so much as you should have done, and that you knew not the greatnesse of the benefit so well by the fruition as now by the want of it. At  Banbury  even amongst you was your Pastour borne and bred, and there he lived and died. Ministers are called Incumbents, so was he being diligently resident in his place, they are stiled Lights, so was he, like a candle or lampe which spent himselfe to give light to others. He spent his means and strength amongst you, and as himselfe in his sicknesse said,  He sought not yours but you.  Of all the Ministers that ever I knew so experimentally, he was the most unblameable in his conversation. I had the happinesse to live almost a yeare with him in his house, neare foure yeares under his Ministry, and to be esteemed by him one of his faithfullest friends, I have cause to blesse GOD for him whilst I live, since it pleased him by his meanes, not onely to reveale many saving truthes unto mee, but also to set them on with such power, as I hope I shall never forget them. Oh, with what life and zeale would hee both preach and pray! and how strict and watchfull was hee in his whole life! being (as every good Minister should be)  Blamelesse, Sober, Just, Holy, Temperate, 1 Tim. 3.2. Tit. 1.8.   of good Behaviour, given to Hospitality, apt to teach, a lover . will beare both readings. 
 2 Tim. 2.15.   of good things and good men. Hee studied to approove himselfe unto GOD, a workeman that needed not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word
 
of Truth. 1 Tim. 4.12 1 Pet. 5.3. Tit. 2.7. There are two singular virtues in a good Example.  He propounded to you the Examples of holy Writ, and was himselfe whilst he lived, an Example and Patterne of all good works, If that saying therefore of  Austins  be true,  So many as a man shall edifie by a good Example, 1 It may profit a world of people. 1 Thes. 1.7, 8 
 2 It is lasting and may doe good for a long time after. 
 1 Pet. 3.5, 6. M.  Harris  at  Hanwell.  for so many he shall receive a reward of a blessed life,  than surely he hath now received a full reward for all the good hee did by his holy life, unto those with whom he conversed. In a word, hee was a most pious and accomplisht Divine for his ministeriall parts and paines (as one of his neare Friends said truely) hee might sooner bee envied than matcht and equalled; being in this like  Saul,  higher than his brethren by the head. He was well skilled in both the Originall tongues, being able to render the Text out of his  Hebrew Bible  or  Greeke Testament  to another in our mother tongue, as familiarly almost, as if it had bin English. For the Arts, he was a good  Logician,  as his exact  Analysis  of the  ten Commandements  sheweth, a good  Philosopher,  as his Sermons in manuscript on the 104.  Psalme  doe witnesse, a good  Rhetorician  or  Oratour,  as his printed Treatises aboundantly testifie. Hee had words at will and could readily and aptly expresse himselfe in his Sermons, which gift of Elocution is requisite if not necessary for a compleate Divine. 
 He had by long  He was a Preacher at  Banbury  above thirty yeares.  Experience gotten the art of preaching, and he wrote a tract concerning that subject; hee had an excellent faculty in characterizing
 
or fitly describing a vertue or vice, or any other thing, and though he had no common-place-booke of his own, yet he could treat of any subject, I might also extoll his other indowments, and without danger of exceeding magnifie him for his strong naturall parts, his solid judgement and tenacious memorie, and commend some vertues wherein hee excelled to your imitation, as his Humility, Mercifullnesse, Beneficence, Laboriousnesse and Diligence  Hee went over in his preaching the whole Booke of  Iudges,  both the  Samuels,  the 1  Kings  to the 11.  C.  or therabout, all the  Psal.  to the 106. & the whole  Gospel  of  Iob.  besides al the principles of Religion often.  in his Calling, and then also shew how comfortably he died, being full of heavenly speeches and godly Exhortations. 
 Therefore I passe from himselfe to this  Opus posthumum,  this first worke of his which since his death came to light,  viz.  Sermons on all the Examples or Historicall part of  Genesis,  which Booke containeth a briefe and short Story of the things done from the beginning of the world to the death of  Joseph,  for the space as it is thought by some of 2309. yeares, by Doctor  Willet  of 2368. yeares. Examples are not unfitly compared unto looking-Glasses, wherein one may behold as well what to eschew, as what to follow: So you should follow the  Faith of Abraham  and  Obedience of Isaack,  but shun their lying and dissembling; follow  Noah  and  Lot  in their  Righteousnesse and Zeale,  but shunne their  drunkennesse and incest. 
 And because an  Example  of a Person living amongst
 
you may bee more prevalent with some then the Examples of others though singularly holy whose vertues they onely read of (as a Sermon delivered,  Ʋiva voce,  doth more affect then the same reade out of a Booke) So walke therefore as you had him for an Example, and bee you followers of him, as hee was of CHRIST, in the Graces before mentioned and all holy conversation.  Remember him who had the rule over you, Heb. 13.7.   who hath spoken unto you the Word of GOD, whose Faith follow  and Charitie too; for Master  Whately  was the most bountifull Minister to the poore I thinke in  England  of his meanes, your Consciences will witnesse that hee hath often pressed and urged this Dutie upon you, and as hee was earnest in perswading his Hearers to beneficence, so hee practised the same Himselfe, entertaining some poore widdowes or necessitous Persons weekely at the least at his Table, and giving the tenth of all his Estate that way, and see how GOD blessed him for the same, his Estate (as himselfe told mee) prospered the better after hee tooke that course, and in his sickenesse hee comforted himselfe with that Promise,  Psalme  41.1, 3.  Blessed is hee that considereth the poore, the LORD will deliver him in time of trouble. The LORD will strengthen him upon the bed of
 
languishing.  O follow him therefore who by Faith and Patience inherits the Promises, let his good Example and wholesome Instructions provoke you to all holinesse, that you allso may partake with him in that happinesse of which hee is now fully possessed, 
 Your true Christian Friend,  Edward Leigh. 

