
 
 
 TO THE RIGHT HONORABLE EDVVARD, Viscount MANDEVILLE. 
 Right Honorable, 
 T Here is a common slander that hath been raised, and vile aspertion that hath been, and still is cast upon the wayes of godlinesse; That they dis-ennoble mens spirits, (which  Salvian  complained of eleven hundred  Sal. l. 4 de Gab. 1. Dei.  yeares agoe,  Si quis ex nobilitate converti ad Deum coeperit, statim honorem nobilitatis amittit; o quantus in Christiano populo honor Christi est, ubi Religio ignobilem facit!)  That they make men rigid, melancholy, sowre, uncivill; That they dull their parts; That they take them off from the delights of the things in the world; That if men take up the power and strictnesse of them, they must resolve never, to keep any correspondence with their friends
 
who are of rank and quality in the world; and therefore although those who have little of the world, and little to doe in the world, may live strict lives; yet it is not for such who are borne to great things, whose fortunes are raised higher than other mens, who have references to many of quality & place; it cannot be expected that they should bee so strict; this must needs hinder them in their outward accomplishments; if they begin to take such a course, it is impossible they should be compleate every way, as beseemes such as they are: and thus many are compelled to be evill, lest they should be esteemed vile, as  Salvian  complaines of his time;  Mali coguntur esse ne viles habeātur:  a notable speech of his, fully sutable to our times. The first observance (that I remember) I had of this place in  Salvian,  was from your Lordships ownhands, shewing it to me in him, as an expression that your Lordship was much affected with. But these men do not consider how much they speak against themselves; were this true, it were a snare, a judgement to be raised in outward excellencies above others. No; it is not honour, they are not riches, parts, dignities that hinder godlinesse; it is the basenesse and corruption of mens spirits,
 
in the enjoyment of these that hinders; godlinesse raiseth the excellencies of them, it drawes out the chiefe good in them, and puts a higher beauty and glory upon them. God hath raised up your Honor, to convince the world of the falsenesse, malice, impiety there is in this evill report that is brought up, upon the good and blessed wayes of godlinesse. Malice it self cannot but acknowledge, that godlinesse in the strictnesse of it, & naturall excellencies in the eminency of them, have a blessed conjunction in your Honour; Godlinesse as the enameling of Pearls in those golden naturall endowments with which God hath mercifully & plentifully enriched you: and were it but for this service only to God and his Church, in convincing the world of the vilenesse of this slander; I may speake without suspition of flattery, happy that ever you were borne; and I know, that those who know your Lordship, will justifie me in that I say. In this God hath honored your Lordshipe exceedingly; were there no other end for which you still live in such a generation, as you doe, but onely this; yet in this you have great cause to blesse your selfe in God, and in this great honour he hath put upon you, to make you so publike and worthy an instrument
 
of his. Who is it that lookes upon you, and sees your wayes, but must needs confesse, Now I see that strictnesse and power of Religion, may stand with a most noble, generous, sweet, amiable, courteous demeanour; I see it raiseth and ennobleth parts; and though it banisheth base and sordid pleasures, which are beneath the dignity of a man, much more of ture Nobility and generousnesse; yet it knowes how to make use of the delights that God affords in this world, and orders and guides them so, as by it they are injoyed with a double sweetnesse, farre above that which others finde. 
 And yet further, there are two more blessed conjuctures which adde much honour to you; the one is a facile yeeldablenes of spirit to any (though much inferiour) in anything, where good may bee done; and yet a strong, unmoveable, sledfast, resolute spirit against that which is evill. It was the high commendation that  Nazianzen  gave of  Athanasius,  that hee was  Magnes, &   Nazian. in Encom. Athanas.   Adamas,  A Loadstone in his sweet, gentle, drawing nature; and yet an Adamant in his resolute slout carriage against those who were evill. 
 The other is this (which makes all beautifull
 
and lovely indeed) though God hath raised you high in birth, in abilities, in the esteeme of men both good and bad; yet the lustre of the humilitie of your spirit shines beautifully thorow all, manifesting it selfe in much gentlenesse and meeknesse; and this is the height of all true excellency. A man of understanding is of an excellent spirit, saith  Salomon, Prov. 17. 27.  the word in the Originall, is,  A coole spirit. In also posito non altum sapere difficile est, & omnino inusitatum; sed quanto inusitatius, tanto gloriosius,  saith  Bernard, ep. 42.  The Lord carry on your truely noble and generous spirit, that you may long hold forth the power, beauty and excellency of his grace. Let the height of all your designes be, to list up the Name of the great God.  2 Cor. 5. 9. We labour,  saith the Apostle,  whether present orabsent to bee accepted of him:  the word translated,  Labour,  loseth the elegancy of it, it is  ; we love the honour of it; it is such a labour as we account it our honour and glory: We are ambitious; to have high designes for God is a holy and a blessed ambition; whereas the ambition of other men is low, & base:  Infoelix prorsus
 
ambitio, quae ambire magna non novit,  saith  Bernard.  Account your selfe blessed  Bern. pag. 1010.  when your God is blessed. It was the blessing of  Shem, Gen. 9. 26. Blessed be the Lord God of  Shem; the chiefe of  Shems  blessing was, that his Lord God was blessed. That which I seeke, is to ingage your Lordship for God, and to stirr you up to answer fully the esteeme, the expectations that men have of you, whose eyes are upon you as a publike blessing, & an ornament to the prosession of the truth. And yet this I desire your Lordship would consider, (as I know you doe) that Religion is a greater honour, and ornament to you, than you are to it; it doth and will more honour you, than you ever did, or can honor its Your birth made you honourable, but oh how honourable have you beene, since you have beene pretious in Gods eyes!  Esay 43. 4.  Your parts were alwayes hopefull, but how apparently have they beene raised since grace hath sanctified them? Although God takes it well at the hands of those whom hee hath raised in the things of the world higher than others, when hee seeth them forward in setting out his praise; yet he would not have them thinke that he is beholding
 
to them, as if the honour of God depended so upon them, as it would faile, did not they put to their helpe. No, God can raise his honour by other meanes, he can glorifie himselfe, and get himselfe a great name, by low, meane, and contemptible things: It is not because God hath need of honour from you, but because he delights to honour you, that he is pleased to use you in his service; It is an advancement to whatsoever greatnesse you have in the world, to bee imployed for God, were it but in the meanest service he hath to doe. Where the heart is right, even in that, it gloryeth more than in all the dignity that earth can put upon it; But yet the greater Instruments the Lord raiseth up for his glory, the greater services he cals them unto, the greater things may wee hope he intends for his Church. 
 When S.  John  saw the Elders casting downe their crownes before the Throne, saying;  Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory, and honour, and power,  Apoc. 4. 10. soone after S.  John  heard  every creature in heaven, and on earth, and sea, saying, Blessing, honour, glory, and power, be unto him that sitteth upon the Throne, and unto the Lambe for
 
evermore,  cha. 5. 13. And soone after that, hee saw Christ with his Crowne upon him, going forth  conquering, and to conquer  Chap. 6. 2. What great mercies might we expect, did we see God raysing up truely noble and generous spirits, more generally in the great ones of the earth? did we see the Elders and Nobles, casting downe their Crownes before the Throne of the Lambe, willing to deny all their glory, and excellencies, and estates, for the raising up the glory of Iesus Christ? 
 Certainly, God hath great things to doe in this latter age of the world, and hee is a God with whom there is as great abundance of spirit as ever, when his time comes, how soone will such a thing bee, as the raising mens spirits to higher and more noble designes, than now we can imagine? 
 The observing the frame and work of your most pretious noble spirit (Right Honourable) put mee upon the thought of this Argument; The chiefest book that I made use of, for the inlarging   Meditations in it (next the Scripture was that which I joyfully beheld in you  selfe, and your Noble and much honorred Lady; highly honoured and lov 
 
and that deservedly, in the esteeme, and hearts of all who know her and the truth,  John  Ep. 2. ver. 1. 
 Such gracious principles appeared in your spirits, such divine rules by which yee were guided, those high and noble employments in which yee delighted, those blessed qualifications, which as so many Diamonds in their lustre, and beauty, sparkled that light, that freenesse, that strength, that publikenesse, that holinesse, &c. Those comsorts of a higher nature than the common drossie comforts of the world, that yee chose to your selves, to satisfie your spirits in, and found content¦ment in the enjoyment of; that caused the dilating of my thoughts about these things, and now making knowne themselves publikely, they crave patronage from your Lordship, who have beene the originall from whence they came. 
 And here I humbly present them to your Honour, and to your vertuous and noble Lady, as a glasse wherein your selves and others may see the frame and workings of your spirits; I dare say, that all who know you, and know that I had the happinesse to bee so neare unto you, and to have 
 
 
excited to look about thee, if false. Art thou indued with such a spirit as here thou maist find? nothing in the world, in hell, or in thy flesh, shall be able to conquer thee; as Christ himself, thou shalt indure such crosses and contradiction of sinners, as these times are big with; thou shalt despise the shame, and be able to resist to bloud, if God should call thee to that honour. What excellency of spirit was in S.  Paul,  when  Act. 21. 13  he took it ill that they diswaded him from going up to  Jerusalem,  where he was to meet with sharp afflictions;  What mean you to weepe and break my heart,  saith he,  for I am ready not to be bound only, but also to die at Jerusalem for the Name of the Lord Jesus. Moses  refuses to be called the son of  Pharaohs  daughter; though himselfe, or some of his posterity might happily have come to the Kingdome by it, and chuses afflictions rather with the people of God, &c. He would not become an Egyptian, though of  Heb. 11.  the Royall Stem; but abide an Hebrew, who were abomination to the Egyptians: He knew, that the reproach of the Members did redound to the Head, and would bee well recompenced by him; and therefore he will suffer afflictions, and esteeme the reproaches of Christ above all the treasures of Egypt, a greater patrimony, saith  Ambrose.  So base are many spirits in this age, that they had rather censure than trace his practice.  Scaliger  tels of a Tree, to which when  xer it. 18  §. 27, 28.  a man cometh,  Ramos constringit;  but when he
 
departs,  ramos p dit:  Too many are like this tree; when any Ministers or Christians, that have the reproach of Christ upon them, come neare them, and have to deale with them; let relations, promises, ingagemēts be what they wil, they shrink up themselves, are troubled, sadded, and perplexed, thinking it disgrace unto thē to have to do with such; but when they are gone, then their hearts dilate again, & their faces grow pleasant: such an adulterous generation there is, that are ashamed, of Christ in any of his poore, reproached, despised Members; & not only ashamed, but like that Plant called the  Tartarean Lamb,  which in shape and proportion answers the Lambe, but grazeth and eateth up the grasse round about it, suffering no green thing to be neare: and these men are Lambes in shape, but eating up every green thing that is neare unto them.  Psa. 14. 4. They eate up my people as bread;  they are the food their malice feeds upon. 
 It is observed, the Pope was so busie and hot against  Luther,  that he neglected to look to all Christendome against the  Turk;  such basenesse was in a Popes brest, that he could easier have digested  Mahumetisme;  than  Lutherdnisme;  & may we not think the  Alcoran  would be welcome to those Confessors, who have enjoyned their burthened in conscience to burne their Bibles for Pennance; this, some living know to be a truth. There is much basenesse in the spirits of men, and upon little occasion it vents it selfe:  1 Sam. 12.   Doeg  haead   malicious murderous spirit in him,
 
& spared not those that ware the  Linnen Ephod.  The rich man,  Luk.  12. 19. was all for earth, & nothing for heaven. A great man finding his sicknesse encreasing, caused his bed to be made between, or upon his Coffers, where he had much gold; a Lord came to him, and wished him to go to his Chamber, and not lie there; his answer was, I am well where I am, so long as I can tarry, for I am neare unto my friends, meaning his Coffers and his gold. What drossie corporall soules have such men? The  Gadarens  drove Christ out of their Country; they esteemed their Swine above a Saviour:  Demas  embraceth the present world;  Ananias  and  Saphyra  reserve a portion for themselves: such spirits ever have been, and will be in the world. Spirits they are as much beneath common reason, as those mentioned in this work are above it. It is choyce, not common spirits, that will honour God in stormy times. Had not a choyce and excellent spirit been in  Nehemiah,  the plots and practices of enemies would have daunted  eh. 6. 11.  him; but take a view of his spirit;  Should such a man as I am flee? and who is there, that being as I am, would go into the Temple to save his life? I will not go in.  He had a good cause, a good conscience,  Ve. s 13. 17  a good God, which advanced his spirit to such resolvednesse, that hee would not take Sanctuary, and disparage either of them by his feare or faint-heartednesse; whē he saw the Sabbath prophaned, he hid not his eyes from it, but
 
contended with the Nobles about it. What Divine spirits were in the three Children? Could  Nebuchanezars  greatnesse, mandates, threats of  Dan. 3. 18.  the fiery Fornace, force their spirits to false worship?  Be it known unto thee, O King, that we will not serve thy gods.  Here they did obediently disobey,  As  Groasthead  Bishop of  Lincolne  once answered the Pope.  knowing that nothing pleases God, but what hee hath commanded in his Word: they would not deliberate in this case,  Wee are not carefull to answer thee,  say they. When any enticements come to draw us from the pure worship of God, wee should stop our eares, charme the Charmers never so wisely. 
 Charles  the Emperour, and two great persons in this Kingdome, solliciting King  Edward  the sixt to allow his sister the Lady  Mary  to have  asse, would not listen, but bade them be conce t, for he would spend his life, and all he had, rather than agree, and grant to that hee  See  Act.  and  Mon. 2 Vol.  p. 553.  knew certainly to be against the truth; the suit being yet pressed, he brust out into bitter weeping, and sobbing, desiring them to desist. The motioners seeing his zeale, and constancy, wept as fast as he, and told one, he had more Divinity in his little finger, than they had in all their bodies. What a choyce spirit was in that young Lord  Harrington,  who was a man of prayer: he prayed twice a day in secret; twice with his servants in his chamber, and joyned at appointed times with the family in prayer: he would never be idle, but alwaies well, if not religiously
 
imployed; he meditated on 4. or 5. Sermons every day, retaining five or six in his memory alwayes; he kept an exact account of his life every day, very conscientious of honouring God to purpose, in publike and private; on the Lords day he would repeat both the Sermons with his servants before supper, and write them down in his night booke before hee slept, and on the morning of that day, he would as he made him ready, repeat those Sermons hee had heard the Lords day before; and for the Sacrament, he received it very frequently, and alwayes fasted the Saturday before, spending the whole day in  Stock  See in his funerall Sermons.  examination; prayer and humbling himselfe, that so he might be fitted to feast with Christ: he gave away the tenth of his estate unto the poore, & pious uses, besides his occasionall charity when he was abroad: Here was a choyce spirit, beautified with variety of graces, not unfit for great & mean to propound for their pattern. 
 Daniel  in  Babylon  would not defile himselfe with the portion of the Kings meat, nor with the wine which he dranke; hee had rather eat pulse than defile his conscience. When the writing was signed, the Lions den threatned, did he mussle up his Religion, and shrink up his spirit? he would not shut up his window, nor diminish his prayers, but thrice a day prayed, and gave thankes unto his God, as he did afore time; here was a spirit for God and his wayes, and not for the times. 
 
Happily some temporizing politician will charge  Daniel  of indiscretion: no, it was the excellency of his spirit, that in case of danger, and that of life, he would not separate external profession from inward faith, when God should lose by it: And what, dost thou charge him with indiscretion, whom the Scripture commends for his wisdome? It was a proverbiall speech,  Wiser than Daniel, Ezek.  32. 3. and his heart did not accuse him for that indiscretion, when he was in the Lions den; for he saith,  Innocency was found in him;  he was not ashamed of his godlinesse; that had raised him and hee would maintaine the honour of it. Such spirits have true excellency in them, & are not shie of the wayes or servants of God, when the flouds of iniquity overflow, & threaten to beare down all. Fearefulnesse to appeare in Gods cause is a part of the old man, & when God puts into his,  another,  a new spirit, that wasts thy fearefulnes; the more thou hast of Gods Spirit, the more thy old timorous cowardly spirit is abated.  Mat.  9. 16. That is put in to fill up, takes from the garment; and when grace fils up a man, it takes away from the old man, the old basenesse, feare, and dastardlinesse in the cause of God, and a holy undaunted resolution is begottē in thee to justifie wisdom, although thou dānifie thy self.  Dan. 6. 10. 
 According to the fulnesse of mens spirits are their carriages, with more or lesse confidence in their undertakings; If Satan have filled the
 
heart, men will boldly serve him,  Acts 5. 3. Why hath Satan filled thy heart to lie unto the Holy Ghost?  Satan had filled his heart, and therefore he feared not to lie unto God himselfe.  Dieu  saith upon the place,  Implere cor alterius est audacem eum reddere,  & he cites that place,  Hest. 7. 5. Quis hic est, qui implevit cor suum ad faciendum sic?  Who is he that hath filled his heart; in our Translations,  That durst presume in his heart to doe so? Hamans  heart was filled with malice, and that made him bold to attempt the destruction of all the Jewes: And where godlinesse fils the heart, there will be as venturous & bold attempts for God.  Paul  being filled with the Holy Ghost set his eyes on  Elymas,  and so  Acts 13. 9. 10.  thundred and lightned against him, that presently his proud malitious spirit was blasted. 
 When the heart of a man is filled with divine truths, it is not the presence of men in highest place can daunt it.  Elisha  had a double portion of the spirit of  Elijah;  and did the greatnesse, or wickednesse of  Iehoram  daunt him? There appeared a Deity in his very speech and spirit, 2  Kings 3. 14. As the Lord of Hosts liveth before whom I stand, surely were it not that I regard the presence of Iehosaphat, the King of Iudah, I would not looke towards thee, nor see thee.  Hee had a fulnesse of Gods Spirit in him, that could speake thus to one of the gods on earth. When a mans heart is filled with divine influence, he feares not the enemies of goodnes, neither
 
is ashamed of ought accompanies godlinesse, 2  Tim. 1. 7, 8. God hath given us the spirit of power, of love, and of a sound mind; be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony, &c.  When the power of God is in a mans spirit, he will not bee ashamed of the Crosse, nor refuse to share in the afflictions of the Gospel. It is the honour of Religion, to have such Disciples as will own her, and stand for her at all times, and that with an undaunted courage,  Acts 4. 8, 9, 10, 11, 12. Peter was filled with the Holy Ghost, and said; Bee it knowne unto you all, and all the people of Israel, that by the Name of Iesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, even by him doth this man here stand before you whole; this is the stone which was set at nought of you builders, &c.  And after when he and  Iohn  were commanded silence; what said they?  Whether it be right in the sight of God, to hearken unto you more than God, judge yee; for we cannot but speake the things we have seene and heard.  It is a brand upon  Nicodemus  that he came to Christ by night; and so of the chiefe Rulers that beleeved on him, but because of the Pharisees did not confesse him, lest they should be put out of the Synagogues: but it was  Nicodemus  praise, for that he had got boldnesse to speak for Christ, when vilified, though himselfe suffered reproach for it: this shewed some excellency and growth in his spirit, that he could both speake and suffer for Christ. So
 
 Ioseph  of Arimathea was timerous at  Ioh.  19. 38. but being filled with grace,  He went in boldly to Pilate and craved the body of Iesus, Mark.  15. 43. With what holy boldnesse did those men march through reproaches, afflictions, and persecutions for the truths sake. 
 Reader, swallow thou this Booke (as  Ezekiel  did his rowle) and thou shalt be inabled to doe as much. Principle and fill thy spirit with the pretious truths contained in this little Treatise, and thou shalt find thy drooping spirit to receive, a heavenly warmth to come upon thee, and a holy boldnesse thrusting thee forward for God and godlinesse. Wickednesse is too bold, and godlinesse too shamefast; it hath lost and suffered much through mens cowardlinesse. Reade, meditate, and feast thy spirit with what thou herein findest, and thou mayst walke bold as a Lion through the midst of a crooked and perverse generation; thou shalt daunt wickednesse it selfe, and make Religion truely beautifull, and honourable. 
 If thou shouldest say, This book might have been kept in, there are too many already; I answer thee, There be many, but few to purpose. The Sea is full of water, yet God addes daily to it by rivers, and showers. Many would read little, if new bookes were not set forth daily Bookes do quicken up a drowsie age to the best purpose. New bookes are like new fashions, taken up at first with affection. Notwithstanding
 
all the Munition of the Kingdome, there is new made daily. Books are more needfull than Armes, the one defends the body, the other the soule. If thy spirit be choice and right, thou wilt acknowledge this worke, solid, spirituall, and such as hitherto thou hast not met with many like it. If trees be knowne by their fruit; what other sentence may bee passed upon the Composer of it, but that hee hath profited in the Schoole of Christ above thousands; hath had a large operation of Gods Spirit in his own soule, attained to a choicenesse and excellency of spirit himselfe, & that he hath clearly differenced betweene pretious and base spirits. I shall appeale to thy selfe, Christian Reader, when thou hast perused this Booke, whether thou wouldest have had it buried in the dark. If he deserves a curse that withholds corne,  Prov.  11. 26. thou wilt blesse God for this corne the Authour hath sent to market. God made him a fountaine not to bee sealed up, but to slow for common good.  Veritatem celare est aurum sepelire.  In a fountaine sealed, and treasures hid,  Aug conf. l. 11.  the Authour knew was little profit. Hee hath let out himselfe to advantage thee, taken this off from his owne spirit, to put upon thine. Doe thine endeavour to better thy selfe by it, and if thou gettest any good, give unto God glory; if none, suspect thy spirit, and spare thy censures: The Authours spirit is above them, and counts it a very small thing to
 
bee judged of mans judgement. My prayers are, that thou mayest profit much, attaine true excellency of spirit, and follow God fully all thy dayes, that so thy end may bee comfortable, and glorious. 
 Thy Christian friend,
W. Gr. 

