
 
 
 TO HIS HIGHNESS THE PRINCE OF WALES. 
 SIR, 
 I T was the special Command of  Your Roia&Father,  our most  Gracious Sovereign,  to the Bishops of  London  and  Elie,  now with God, to take
 care that, of the innumerable Papers of  This Reverend Prelate,  none should bee committed to the  Press,  but such as  They  found perfected by  His  accurate hand. 
 In prosequution wherof we are much bound to Their care and faithfulness for the communication of  His  Incomparable  Sermons  &  Discourses,  which now inrich the World with  Pietie  and  Learning;  and put
 it to the wonder to see the Quintessence of the  Fathers  &  School  distilled through  His  Limbeck, in so fit language and expressions, to the great advantage of the Church of God. 
 Why  This  most excellent Piece of  His Devotions  was not by  Them  presented with the rest, the  Language,  wherin it was conceiv'd and us'd by  Him,  will give abundant satisfaction to
 Your Highness. His Greek  had been but a  Barbarian  unto them, whose benefit was chiefly intended in all the  Publications of His Works.  Nor is  Your Highness  now to bee assured, that  They,  who were imploied in that service, were  Wise  and  Honorable Persons,  that  They  well  knew  Their Work, and  did  it. 
 And truly,  SIR,  the  Commands  of  His Majestie  shall ever be
 so  sacred  to me, and the  Judgment  of  Those Reverend Prelats  so much  esteemed  by me, that I should not have presum'd on this Essaie, had not the  Honor  of  This Renowned Bishop  been eclipsed, by obtruding on the World some broken parcels, miserably defaced by a careless  Press,  under the glorious Name of  Bishop Andrews. 
 If this be thought no sufficient ground
 for this high presumption, I shall proceed in my presumption on  Your Highness,  to be a  Mediator  to  Your most Glorious Father,  for  His Gracious Pardon  to a sinner, who, not being without great hopes of  advancing Pietie by his sin,  is confident of obteining  Your Princelie Interposition  that it is  Felix Error.  And that, the benefit hereof so much redounding to the  Glorie of
 God,  by promoting Christian people in  Devotion,  it would have been a greater sin against the  Public,  to detein so pretious a  Jewel  from improvement: It being the peculiar happiness of  Sacred Commodities,  to be made  better by their using. 
 And to whom should  Devotion  address her self for  Patronage,  in  this Age of Irreligion  and  Prophaness;  in this great
 invasion upon  God,  the  King,  the  Church,  and whatsoëver is called  Holie,  if not to  Your Highness?  It will bee no sin in us, to look for the righting and maintenance of  them all,  from  Your Princelie Arm,  assisted with the  Power of Heaven. 
 Ride on,  Great Prince,  upon the Horses of Salvation, and the  Lord of Hosts  sight your battels. Maie the Sword of the LORD
 and  Prince  CHARLES be mightie in operation, for the  Redemption  of  His Sacred Majestie,  and the  Restitution  of  This Church  and  Kingdom  to Their ancient  Libertie  and  Glorie.  Maie  Honor, Prosperitie  and  Peace  so accompanie and crown  Your Pious, Christian,  and  Princelie  undertakings, that our eies maie once more see the  King  upon  His Throne,  gloriously triumphing in the  Affections 
 of  His Subjects,  happily united in the indissoluble bonds of  Love  and  Loialtie. 
 This is the summe of all our desires, and the dailie Praier of him, whose highest ambition is, not to be utterly uncapable of doing service to the  Church  of  God,  and of approving himself, 
 SIR, 
 Your Highness's  most humble, and most loially devoted  Orator  and  Servant,  RICHARD DRAKE. 

