
 
 
 TO THE HIGH COURT OF PARLIAMENT, BOTH LORDS AND COMMONS: More particularly to the Worthy Speakers of both Houses: The Right Honourable  Edward,  Lord  Littleton,  Lord Keeper of the Great-Seale of  England▪  and the Right Worshipfull  William Lenthall,  Esquire. 
 My Lords, and Gentlemen, 
 T O aske whether Light be pleasant, is a blind mans question; and whether knowledge be sweet, is an ignorant mans question; and whether Divine Light and knowledge (in regard of which all other is but as a Glow-worme of the Braine) be most pleasant, and most sweet, is a prophane mans question. 
 This Booke challengeth an eminent Dedication of it selfe both  ex congruo & condigno  in diverse regards. For first, the origirall Theame, which beares the burthen of the whole Discourse, and Tractate is the ten Commandements of Almighty God, which are the ten Predicaments of all those vertues and vices, which render men either acceptable or odious to their Maker; the Scripture of Scripture, as being prerogatived above the whole Bible, in this respect, that in issuing them forth to the sonnes of men, God was
 pleased to become his owne  Amanuensis;  The whole Scripture is 2 Tim. 3.16.  inspired by God, but onely 1. Pet. 1.21.  holy men of God spake and wrote them as they were inspired by the Holy Ghost, but here God both indited and spake and wrote, not onely the mind and mouth, but the Exod. 8.19.   Finger of God  was here. 
 Secondly, the Author of this Booke is enough praised in naming of him, it was  Dr. Andrewes,  the late Bishop of  Winchester,  a man both at home and abroad of great fame, for his Clerk, ship, and of a good fame for his regular and strict life: of whom the lesse is said, the more is said, for that to fetch lustre to his name from a meane stile or tongue, is to goe Northward for heat. 
 Thirdly, the worke it selfe is such, as in those dayes when it was Preached, he was scarce reputed a pretender to learning and piety then in  Cambridge,  who made not himselfe a disciple of  Mr. Andrewes  by diligent resorting to his Lectures: nor he a pretender to the study of Divinity, who did not transcribe his notes, and ever since they have in many hundreds of Copies passed from hand to hand, and have beene esteemed a very Library to young Divines, and an Oracle to consult at, to Laureat and grave Divines: in all which severall regards, they are more fit to sweeten, and even to sanctifie the Presse, from the pollutions and prophanations of it, which of late it hath beene defiled withall, by those many lying and scandalous pamphlets, which have beene Printed to the dishonour of God, the shame of ours, and just distaste of other Nations, to the prejudice of truth and charity, and to the particular wrong of that excellent Art of  Printing,  which being rightly used is of such availe to all Christian both Churches and Commonwealths. 
 And that the publisher hereof makes such a bold and ambitious accesse unto your Honours, as to Nuncupate and present it to so high and eminent persons, this is to be said, that as the worke in it selfe is so worthy, as it may justly be thought to merit the wing and patronage of the greatest Christian Prince in the world, so can it now no where be laid so properly as at the feete of the  Parliament. 
 First, because hereby the Law of God, which is both the best rule of making humane Lawes, and the best enforcement to yeeld obedience unto them being made, is in you virtually, and by way of representation, expounded to the whole Nation. 
 
 Nextly, not onely Kings, but, according to their Latitude, all Magistrates and Civill powers ordayned of God (whereof yours is the chiefe) are  Custodes utriusque tabulae.  And also, because here are two strong and sinewy Tractates, the one about Idolatry in handling the second  Commandement:  and the other about observation of the Sabbath, under the fourth; which will both notably redargue the late heterodox insinuations of both doctrine and practice in some, anent those things, and concurre with you in propugning the Orthodox tenets of both those points. 
 Lastly, because Preachers are publique Oratours, and like winds upon seas, have great influence upon the people, therefore here they have presidented before them, that which in due time will fall under your Considerations to call them unto, to wit, the right Art of Sermoning and salvificall Preaching, which consists not in State invectives, or popular declamations, to sway multitudes and tumults, either one way or other, (wherein they Preach themselves, and not Christ) but in revealing  the whole Counsell of God,  and shewing their auditors how to decline the infortunate Jslands of sin and hell, and to thrust into the  faire havens  of grace and glory. God Almighty of his great mercy so blesse your Counsels, as that truth may empire over errour in the Church: Peace triumph over division in the Common-wealth: Plenty over famine in the Countrey: Riches over poverty in the City: Learning over barbarisme in the Ʋniversities, &c. To which end this Worke is most humbly Dedicated to your Honours, both for protection and direction, by 
 Your Honours most humble, and most faithfull Servant, in the things of God, and of Christ, JOHN JACKSON. 

