
 
 
 TO THE MOST REVEREND FATHER IN GOD, IAMES Lord Archbishop of  Armagh,  Lord PRIMATE of all IRELAND. 
 May it please your Grace, 
 T Hese little Tractates, as they derive their being from your Graces command; so (like rivolets to the Sea) doe they returne to you againe. Accept them as the first fruits of your owne Industry upon the Authour; who must ever acknowledge he owes himselfe also.
 
What  Epist.  31.   Paulinus  writes to St.  Augustine, Os tuam fistulam aquae vivae, & venam fontis aeterni merito dixerim, cujus desiderio sitivit in te anima mea, & ubertate tui fluminis inebriari terra mea concupivit,  was indeed the cause of my thirsting also, and the Load-Stone that gave mee a happy draught in your service, many yeeres agon out of my native soyle into this Kingdome, which, me thinks, this yeer by your absence hath suffered a great Ecclipse, and yet wee cannot grudge the Church in this floting age, such a  Steeres man,  nor so pious a  Prince,  so pretious an  Earering.  That which is related of the fore-named Father,  Eras. in Ep. ad Arc. Toled. an op. August & Possidō. de vit. August.  In ipsâ mensâ potius disputationem quam opulation m d lig bat.   Mensam habebat hospitibus expositam, sed frugiferis sermonibus, magis quam exquisitis edulijs
 
opipuram, semper de re quadam frugifera commentabatur, ut non minus animi convivarum reficerentur quam corpora,  is so well knowne to bee your Graces daily practice, that it needes no further application, the offals of whose Discourse carefully gathered up, were  able  to  perfect  a Divine  to every good worke.  In a word,  Ibid.  Quasi Deus voluerit in Augustino tanquā in una tabulâ vividum quoddam exemplar Episcopi represeatare omnibus virtutum numeru abselutum,  &c.   Erasmus  his description of him, by what S.  Paul  requires in a Bishop, mee thought in the reading ( mutato nomine ) it was your owne  Picture,  by which if others in this age had beene drawne, I beleeve the office had never beene so much as questioned. 
 The very subjects of both these Discourses were they wrote by whomsoever, could
 
not but claime an Interest in your Grace. The  Conversion  of  Sinners,  by a  Constant Preaching,  who (unlesse a  Stranger in Israel ) but must acknowledge to bee your Character. Nay, this and much more, is no newes to  Fred. Spanhemius  Professor of Divinity in Geneva  (dubiorum Evangelicorum parte tertia)  in his Epistle Dedicatory, largely  P. Bertius in tabul. Geograph.  Speaking of Dublin and the Colledge, addes this only,  Fameuse pour la presence de Iacobus Ʋsserius Theologien honime de gran le crudition & piete, & sur tout celebre par ses escrits, natif. de Dublin. Ioan Selden, marmor Arundell in editionis causa, Reverend ss Antistes  Jacobus Usserius  Archiep Armachanus, vir summâ pieta e, judicio singulari, us{que}, ad miraculum doctus, & literis severioribus promovendis natus,  &c I . Casaubonus, Abrah Scultetus, Cambden: with divers others. By which, it is evident, that if some so advanced have miscarried, the fault hath not bin (as the vulgar apprehends) in the soyle, but in the seed:  Et hisce commemo¦randis, nos vel utilitati publicae grat ulamur, vel divinae benignitati gratamur. Vt est enim modestiae, non agnoscere laudes, ita gratitudinis, non tacere viros, per quos Deus tanta commoda largitur humano generi.   Strangers,  whose large Relation from abroad may prevent any further from home, onely 'tis no  flattery  to attest it. Your continued Motto
 
of  1 Cor. 9 16.   Vaemihi si non evangelizavero,  both in your Episcopall and Archiepiscopall seals, is as worthy of memory, as imitation, where that  Woe  may light I know not, but surely S.  Pauls   2 Cor. 4.8.   reposita est mihi corona,  will bee your portion. How little your Grace affects these kinde of expressions, I am not now to learne,  And  for my selfe, let this be my plea against any mis-judgings in others,  Egregia virtutis exempla veluti lumen in edito ponenda sunt, ut omnibus praeluceāt, multosq, ad aemulationem accendant.   Rare examples ought to bee set up like   Mat 5.15, 16.   lights, where they may be seene ; and in the words of S.  Paul,  I wish it might bee a  Rom. 11.14.  meanes  to provoke to emulation those which are my flesh, and might save some of them,   Lu. 10.37   Fac¦tu similiter,  is the onely intended morall: Be still the Honor of your Nation, the sacred first fruites of this Colledge, the
 
Prime light of this our Israel, where (according to  Ioshua's  wish) you may like the  Sunne stand still  in the Firmament of our Church,  till  all the  enemies  of it, be made its  footestoole.  So prayes many thousands, and among them, as having most cause, 
 Your Graces most humble and affectionate Servant  N. BARNARD 
 Drogheda   Aprill.  28. 1641. 

