
 
 
 TO HIS Excellency  ROBERT  Earle of  ESSEX,  Viscount  Hereford,  Baron  Ferrars  of  Chartley,  Lord  Bourchier  and  Lovain,  one of His Majesties most Honourable Privy Councell, and Generall of the Army raised by the Parliament, in defence of the true Protestant Religion, his Majesties person, the Lawes and Liberties of the Kingdome, and the Priviledges of Parliament. 
 I T is a lovely thing (saith the Philosopher) to  . Arist.  benefit one, but to doe good to a nation, it is a thing divine. Your Excellencies love to  England,  in not counting your blood, your life deare to preserve it; the eminencyes in your person of vertue and valour, of courage and courtesie, of greatnesse and goodnesse, of mercy and meeknesse, of admirable prudence, and unwearied patience, the worthy deeds already done unto this Nation, by your providence; all these obligeth all true English hearts, to beare a part in the National acknowledgment of your worth, and in accepting what is done by your Excellencie with all thankefulnesse. Your noble candor may be pleased then, to pardon this presumption of dedication, in a stranger to your knowledge, but an honourer of your vertues; the rather, because the obscurest clot upon the fallow, reflects something of the sunne beames, as well as the mountaines, as the whole globe. These ensuing meditations are now mustered, to attend the Campe: and if the banner of your protection overspread them, he shall be comforted, who by them desires principally to comfort the Natio, yea the world. For if it be true as
 
Saint  Augustine  writes, that if one drop of the joyes of heaven should fall into hell, it would swallow up all the bitternesse of it:  Tanta est dulcedo caeleslis gaudij, ut si una guttula difflueret in infernum totam amaritudinem inferni absorberet,  August Rom 5. 3. Rom. 8 37. Heb 10 35. Deut.  33. 26. 27.  it may be hoped then, that a few drops of heavenly joyes, here presented [under your Excellencyes countenance] to my Countrymen, ingulphed in an hell of outward miseries, may availe to allay their bitternesse, and cleare their eye sight (as  Ionathans  was after his tasting honey) to see thorough an hell of horror, their heavenly recovery. It is  Englands  present duty, to rejoyce in tribulations, to triumph under terrors, to confide under conflicts, to expect salvations, to veiw God by the eye of faith, as a refuge, as interwining us in his everlasting armes of preservation, as healing our breaches, as stanching our wounds, as preparing all rankes among us, to enjoy a perpetuall unity, peace, amity, joy and jubilee, in despite of hell and  Rome.  All this God will do for us in righteousnes, but by terrible things. And during his pouring vialls of wrath upon the  Antichristians,  the English Church (with the other reformed) must stand on a sea of glasse mingled with fire. She shall apparantly see (as in a glasse)  Antichristian   Rev. 15. 2. 3.  tumults, rising like wave after wave, yet Christ calming them, and causing all attempts ebbe into emptinesse, come to nothing. She shall stand on a sea mingled with fire: enduring hot service from inward contentions, and outward afflictions: these a while shall heat her, but not fire her; scorch her, but not rost her; bruise her heele perhaps, in some losses, but they shall not breake her, nor crumble her, into a totall desolation: for the ten Kingdomes must stand by an unalterable decree, to undo Antichrist,  Rev. 17. from the 12, to the end.  though they a while may seeme to favour and fight for him. And she shall stand with the harpes of God, singing the songs of  Moses  songs of judgement, praises; for every new judgement upon her troublers, and destroyers: and singing too, the song of the lamb, songs of mercie, prayses, for every new deliverance, vouchsafed her from on high. All blessings from the omnipotent Lambe (who warreth against Antichrist, and will conquer) are craved for your Excellency, by all the reall lovers of this Nation, among  Minimorum minimus  Tertul.  ad  Tral¦lian.  whom I rest the meanest of Christs ministers, and to 
 July. 20 1644. 
Your Excellencye most humbly devoted in all Christian service,
 IOHN BEVVICK, 

