
 
 TO THE RIGHT VVORSHIPFVLL, The  Knights  and  Gentlemen  Deputie-Lieutenants of the County of NORFOLK. 
 Honoured Sirs: 
 G Ive me leave to joyn you together in one Epistle whom God and your Countrey hath joyned together in one service; It is not in my purpose to blazen your worth before the world, your own actions speak you in the gate, and wise men had rather do worthily then heare of it; onely observing your unwearied labour of love for God and your Countrey. I count it my duty to come forth and meet you with this pen-service in testimonie of my thankfull respects to you. You read  Numb.  25. when the wrath of God brake out against Israel, that  Phineas  stood up and executed judgement, and the wrath was not onely diverted but himself blessed, yea the blessing was a blessing of peace though wrought out by the sword: your like action in this time of wrath will carrie the like blessing on your selves and houses, yet your work is rather to bring men to justice then to execute it. Many blessed comforts w it on your service. 
 First, we read in Scripture but of one man so potent in
 
heaven that he could command the Sun to stand still, and he was a Souldier,  Joshua;  but of one man of whom it was said, that he had an heart after Gods own heart, and he was a great Souldier,  David:  but of one man of whom Christ gave that great testimonie,  I have not found so great faith no not in Israel.  And he was a Souldier too the Centurion, thus ha h God honoured your calling. 
 Secondly, your work is good, for you are the Ministers of Reformation. I read of a King of Meth, sometimes in Ireland, that being asked how certain noysome birds that came flying into that countrey and bred there might be destroyed: Was answered thus,  Nidos eorum ubique destruendos:  The way to be rid of them was to destroy their nests. Now for a long season many noysome birds have been flying over into this Kingdom, and have bred here; the work of these times, is to destroy those nests of Jesuites and Jesuited persons, and it is that work which now you are upon.  Foelix necessitas quae ad mel ora ducit. Though it cost some paines its worth your labour, happie is that necessitie which leads to better things. 
 Thirdly, your cause is just also, agreeable to the Law of Nature; for,  Conservatio sui ipsius est opus naturalissimum,  to the Law of God: for  David  though not the representative body y t lawfully took up armes for his own defence; to the Law of the Kingdom, for what more legall then that the Houses of Parliament should bring in Delinquents to triall, and how can that be without Armes when the Delinquents betake themselves to their Armes? Vetustatem si spectes est antiquissima, si dignttat  mest honoratissima, si jurisdictionem  st copiosissima.  The Schoolmen say three things concurre to a just warre. First,  Jurisdictio indicentis,  and for that you have the Authoritie of Parliament, which, as one writes, if you respect Antiquitie, is of all Courts the most ancient; if dignitie, is of all Courts the most hononorable; if authoritie and jurisdiction, is of all Courts the most copious. Secondly,
 
 Offensio patientis,  and for that you have matter too much, and your enemies too little, the great cause of their armes is but some peece of prerogative (if they pretend truly) a cause infinitely beneath so unkind & bloodie a war as this is. Thirdly,  Intentïo boni convenientis,  and for that I dare say you are  bellando pacifici,  your war being to prevent warre, and your present bleeding to prevent some great sicknesse which this State would sink under. 
 Fourthly, your Forces live and march under as many prayers as ever English Armies did, you have  preces arma as;  and though  Joshua  fought valiantly,  Exod.  17. yet the prayers of  Moses  (who was not in the fight) got the field. 
 Fifthly, If you do overcome, you shall not make your selves slaves by your own victories; we may truly say of some,  Dum vincunt victi sunt:  when they have overcome others, they are slaves themselves; your Religion, Laws, and Liberties stand all readie to reward your prowes. 
 And sixthly, If you be overcome and die, you die for God and your Countrey; who can bring his life into a better market? blessed are those that dye for the Lord, so that word   is rather to be read,  Rev.  14. 13. Wherefore as heretofore so now much more labour to hold forth the vertues of him that hath called you to this great imployment. As Souldiers are more honoured then others, so they should be more vertuous; he had need carry much grace in his heart that doth daily carrie his life in his hand; and your Souldiers should as well overcome the Countreys with their good examples, as the Enemies with their swords. When  Joshua  went out to battell against the Amalakites his men were all chosen or choice men,  Exod.  17. 9. And saith the Lord  Deut.  23. 9  when the hoste goeth forth against thine enemie then keep thee from every wicked thing.  It is ordinarily observed, that when the jews marched out of Egypt into Canaan, they carried in their colours
 
some significative signe,  Judah  carried a Lyon in his Standard,  Ephraim  an Ox,  Reuben,  the picture of a man,  Nepthali  an Hinde; a Lyon noting their courage, a Man noting their skill and understanding, an Hinde noting their swiftn sse and readinesse for execution; and an Ox for patience, strength and obedience. Such colours should those weare in their lives that are Souldiers for God. The enemies of the Churches had their Colours also; the Beare, the Leopard, Quo modo fidem praestabunt autboritat  qu  Deo sunt persidi. Cons. sa ff. pa. 56.  &c.  Dan.  7. cruell in humane practises, being more fit to be worne in their lives then ours. How can men be faithfull to you that are unfaithfull to God? Dr.  Ferne,  your Adversary and mine, writes thus of the Parliaments Forces; If a list of the Army against his Majestie were examined, there would be found if not a considerable number of Papists, yet of such as they that employ them would have cause to be ashamed of, &c. It may be some of your Souldiers would say as  Davids  did,  Let me go over I pray thee and take off his head.  But let your answer rather be▪ Let him alone, and let him reproach, it may be that the Lord will look on mine affliction, and that the Lord will requite good for his reproaching this day. And as formerly so now yet more and more let your endeavour be to wipe off such aspersions by sending and employing such Souldiers as may not stain your good cause with their ill practise, let your Motto be,  Militia fine malitia.  And as for your successe either it will be good or bad; if bad, measure not the goodnesse of your cause thereby.  Eventus est stultorum argumentum,  It is Gods course to give by denying,  Non habendo habemus.  Wicked  Benjamin  who took part with the delinquents of  G beah,  must first prevaile against not representative, but all Israel, who took up armes to do justice, that Israel might be the more provoked against them.  Judg.  20. And if your successe be good, let your men carry it humbly: humilitie after mercie makes men
 
fit for more mercie. And he that boasts in his own bodie, Qui gloriatur in viribus corports gloriatur in viribus carcer .  boasts in his own prison:  Rejoyce not,  saith  Solomon, when thine enemie falleth.  Pro. 24. 17. 
 Your Souldiers may rejoyce in Gods providence, but not in their enemies blood.  Zonarus  writes that this was the manner amongst the  Romanes  when any triumphed, that an Officer stood behind him, saying,  , look what is behind, and there he saw a bell and a whip; a whip noting that for all his greatnesse he might come under the lash of misery, which bell-like would sound very loud. 
 Nos autem rerum magis quam verborum amatores sumus  tilia potius quam plausibilia sectamur, & in his scrip is non lenocinia esse volumus, led remedia. Salv. Epist. ad Solon.  To the end that the Abbat might have an happy beginning of this work from some luckie manner of presage, he solemnly appointed the day of St.  Perpetua  and of St.  Felicitie,  in which he would lay the first foundation  Cambd. Britan▪ Lincolnshire.  Thus have I taken the boldnesse to present you with my rude thoughts and this small Treatise, concerning which I say as  Salvian,  I have not sought smooth but profitable words. And in which because it hath pleased God to lay the foundation of your proceedings in your good successe at  Crowland,  by the hand and Command of that worthie Gentleman Sir  Miles Hobert,  I wish you that blessing which the Abbat of  Crowland  when he began to build the Abbey would have made the foundation thereof,  Perpetuam foelicitatem. 
 Your humble Servant in the Gospel of Christ Jesus.
 W. BRIDGE. 

