
 
 
 To his Excellencie,  ROBERT,  Earle of  Essex,  Viscount  Hereford,  Baron  Ferrars  of  Chartley,  Lord  Bourchier  and  Lovaine,  one of His Majesties most Honourable Privie Counsel, and General of the Army raised by the Parliament in defence of the true Protestant Religion, His Majesties Person, the Laws and Liberties of the Kingdom, and the priviledges of Parliament. 
 T Here is no man this day upon the face of the earth whom it more concernes to have this name of God The Lord of Hosts presented to him in the due lustre & glory of it, then your Excellencie, whom the Lord hath not onely honoured to stand up even in the fore front to maintain his cause, and the cause of his people, but he hath even put upon you this his owne name, he hath made you the Lord of his Hosts. It is that which every Souldier may justly glory
 
in, that God himselfe seems to affect the glory of Arms, when he causeth himselfe to be as it were sir-named THE LORD OF HOSTS. The beams of this glorious name puts some lustre upon the meanest in an Army; What a lustre then doth it put upon your Excellencie, who stand so neare it? Happy the time that ever you were borne to be made use of by God and his people in so noble and honourable a service as this. We reade ZECH. 3. 3. of Joshua, that great instrument of Reformation, in the returne of JUDAH from her Captivity, that he stood in filthy garments, but the Angel spake to those who stood before him, saying, Take away the filthy garments from him: and unto him he said, Behold, I have caused thine iniquity to passe from thee, and I wil cloathe thee with change of rayment. Those who stand up most eminent and forward in the cause of God and his people, shal ever have some who wil seek to stain their glory by slanders and reproachfull names, to put them into vile garments: what viler garment can there be then the garment of Treason and Rebellion? But the Angel stands by to take off these vile garments, and to clense his servants even from this nominall iniquity: he will put
 
change of rayment upon them, he will one day make it appeare that there were none so faithfull to God, their King and Countrey, as they: The Lord that hath chosen Jerusalem, saith the Text, ver. 2. wil rebuke them who thus stand up against his servants. The Lord who hath set his heart to bring mercie to Jerusalem, to his Church, will certainly rebuke such as stand to resist the great instruments thereof. Wherefore that which the Angel of the Lord protested to JOSHUA, v. 6. I may in the name of the Lord with a little change protest unto your Excellencie,  Thus saith the Lord of Hosts, if you will walke in my wayes, and if you will keepe my charge, then you shall have an eminencie in my house, and I will give you places among these that stand by.  That is, among the blessed Angels in the heavens. If a cup of cold water shall not go without a reward, surely then the venturing estate, liberty, limbes, honour, bloud, life for the cause of Christ, shall not goe without its reward. 
 Wherefore most noble Lord of our Hosts, yea of the Hosts of God, Goe on with true Heroicke magnanimity, and prosper, in the name of this glorious Lord of hosts. The prayers of the Churches are for you, the blessings of the
 
Saints are upon you. I beleeve never any Generall upon the earth hath been mentioned more in heaven then your Excellencie hath been, and yet is in this cause. 
 That which is storyed of the Crosse appearing to CONSTANTINE, with these words, HOC VINCES, I may with far more confidence apply to this name of God, The Lord of hosts. This I present unto your Excellence, with this Motto,  Hoc vinces:  The name is in it selfe a box of sweet ointment, give me leave to open it before your Excellencie, that it may be fragrant indeed, and adde quickning and strength. To that true noble heroick spirit fit for great actions, that God hath honoured you withall, I here humbly present it opened and poured forth. The blessing of it be upon you, and those great things undertaken by you, which is and shal be the prayer of 
 Your Excellencies in all humble service and duty,
Jer. Burroughes. 

