
 
 To our dread Soveraigne Lord The KINGS most Excellent MAJESTY. 
 May it please your Majesty, 
 W EE doe most humbly and thankfully acknowledge, that by Your Majesties vouchsafing to this your Principality the trust of a branch of Your Royall Mint, is an honour that neither our Ancestors nor our selves durst wish for; and we doe as humbly and as thankfully acknowledge and confesse, that by it you have not onely honoured us more, then any of Your Royall predecessors; but you have thereby offered us the means to enrich our selves, to the making of us happier then our fathers,
 
in freeing us from the cares and feares that hindred us from driving into these Mountaines that promise a masse of treasure. For be pleased to know, that before Your Majesty vouchsafed unto us this great favour, we were fearefull to adventure far into the mountaines, because wee had far to send before wee could make the silver currant, that wee should at charge recover. Nor was our care of carriage and recarriage the least hinderance to our proceedings, from all which by Your Majesties goodnesse, and the endeavours of Your industrious and faithfull servant  Thomas Bushell,  we are happily freed; for which favour, we whose names are hereunto subscribed in the behalfe of all the inhabitants of this your Principality of WALES, doe render all humble and hearty thanks, and for them, and our selves, doe hereby promise to Your sacred Majesty, that we will doe our utmost endeavours, to finde out that measure, which we beleeve God and Nature from the Creation hath preserved
 
for Your Majesties use; that thereby wee may approve our selves Your Majesties loyall and most obedient Subjects and humble Servants, 
 
 Thomas Milward  Knight, Chiefe Iustice of  Chester. 
 Marmaduke LLoyd  Knight. 
 Richard Price  K. Baronet. 
 James Price  Knight. 
 Sampson Eure  Knight. 
 Iohn Lewis  Knight. 
 Timothy Turnor  Esquire. 
 I. Littleton  Esq. 
 Walter LLoyd  Esq. 
 Thomas Price  Esq. 
 Robert Corbet  Esq. 
 Evan Gwin  Esq. 
 Morgan Herbert  Esq. 
 Iohn Ʋaughan  Esq. 
 Vincent Corbet  Esq. 
 Humfrey Greene  Esq. 
 Iohn LLoyd  Esq. 
 David LLoyd ap Reighnald  Esq. 
 Thomas Phillips  Esq. 
 Iohn Edmund  Esq. 
 Hugh LLoyd  Gentlem. 
 David Rees  Gent. 
 Iohn Bowen  Gent. 
 William Watkin  Gent. 
 Iohn Meredith  Gent. 
 Iames Kegitt  Gent. 
 

