
 
 To the right Worshipfull Sir  Dennor
Strut,  Knight and Baronet, to the
right Worshipfull  William Heveningham  a worthy
Member of the Honourable House of Commons,
to the Worshipfull  Nicholas Bacon,  and  Henry North, 
Justices of the peace, to the Worthy  Thomas Baker,
Nathaniel Thurston,  and  John Bayles,  Esquires, and
to Mr.  John Mayhew,  &c. 
 N oble Knight, and Worshipfull, and
generous Gentlemen: 
 I being bound
to some of you in the bonds of affinity,
to all in affection but above all in duty;
I cannot but hold it my duty to
proffer you the best of my endeavours, and for want of
any thing worthy, I doe here persent you my good will.
I presume not upon your Patronage, but only beg your
acceptance; considering that if these my endeavours
be worth the accepting, they shall need the lesse assistance.
But if any thing here brought forth be deformed,
it is sure most fit that he which begot it should father
it. 
 The world, peradventure, may wonder that I draw
so large a circle, and then turn it to a cypher▪ that I presume
to stamp so many worthy Names in the front of
this my unworthy worke, and then speake nothing of
the worth of your worthy persons in particular:
 
But let the world know that it is not for want of worth
in your selves that I forbear the same for I doe ingenuously
acknowledge I may justly draw your vertues into
as large a Volume, as any other who have beene
most copious in that kinde. But I, for my part, do hold
it a labour little usefull to paint over that to make it
passe for currant, which doth shine most perfect in its
owne colour. Besides, I am resolved your modest eares
would be rather offended, then fed, with the sound of
your own prayses though unfained. 
 But the chiefest aime of my desires herein is to doe
you some service; not flatter for assistance. Therefore,
if upon perusall hereof (if your more serious imployments
will admit the same) you shall reap any benefit,
or at least content, I shall, in this kind be sufficiently satisfied.
Only I desire that upon your judicious view hereof,
you would vouchsafe a favourable censure; of which
I am the more confident, because I know you cannot expect
any thing polished from a hand so uninstructed.
But not to be too full in a Preface, to too empty a Sequell,
I implore your pardon, and desire to be imploy'd, your
Servant in all humility. 
 Edward Calver. 

