
 
 
 To the High Court of PARLIAMENT of
ENGLAND.
To the Assembly of DIVINES.
To the Christian Magistrates, and
Reformed Churches abroad. 
 Honourable and Reverend, 
 A LL that shall be prefaced unto you, is
an humble sute for your prudent consideration
of the sequele. For if I have
rightly collected; the opinion contended
with, represents you all guilty of
 Schisme  against the  Catholicke Church; 
yea and of a  higher crime,  so many of
you as have with hands lift up to Heaven (of which
number my selfe am one) ingaged your selves in
materiall points of Reformation; not onely without
the Authority or endeavouring to have the minde
of the Catholicke Church; but have also concluded
and established  contrary  to what it hath determined in all
those Assemblies which our Brethren stile the  Representatives 
of it. General Coun¦cells.  From which transgression the truth here
pleaded doth in that respect absolve you: in the comfort
whereof, I would here also leave you. But seeing there
are those, who would not onely have the opposed Tenet
embraced for a fundamental truth in  Church Government, cap. 5. §. 3. 
and propound it as a ground thereof; but that it should also
 
be constituted and established an ARTICLE of FAITH and
 Confession  thereof; I crave leave to adde a supplication,
and with all submission, doe beseech you, that the expedient
of a great man about these affaires, in his advice for
the restoring of  peace  in the Church may be diligently
weighed: Era m. in praef. ad Hilarium:   The summe  (saith he)  of our Religion is peace
and unanimitie; Summa Religionis nostri, pax est & unanimitas, ea vix constare poterit, nisi de quam potest paucissimis definiamus, & in multis literum relinquamus suum cuique judicium, propterea quod nigens sit rerum plurimarum obscuritas,  &c.   of which there is little hope, unlesse those
things that shall be injoyned as matters of faith, bee as
few as may bee; and that wee leave mens judgements free
in many things; by reason that the obscurity in a number of
them is exceeding great, &c.  How much lesse then such
opinions, as are not onely  New  (in the sence  now  propounded)
and controverted, but moreover appugned
constantly also, by the most eminent of our owne
party, (and is as inconsistent with your Liberties, as Episcopacy,
which you have condemned.) Withall I presume
you will not disdaine the wisedome and practise of
the most ancient Churches after the Apostles times: we
see all their  confession of faith  in that  briefe  called the
APOSTLES CREED, and afterward the  Nicene Creed; 
made by the first Generall Councell, and for the explication
of the former; in how few words is it comprehended,
yea and the  confessions  of the Reformed Churches,
and our owne 39.  Articles  are but briefe and for
the most part cleere. 
 Austin  saies  The Rule of Faith is common to the weak and
to the wise. Ep. 57. ad  Dardan.   Which  Vsshers  in the explication of one, Regulum fid i pusillis magnisque comm nem, in Ecclesiam te nt. 
 almost as great, upon it: inferring, that (therefore) 
The Rule of Faith must containe such truthes  ONELY,  Vshers answer to the Iesuite, page 418. 
as are  GENERALLY  agreed upon, by the consent of
all true Christians, and without controversie. 
 Many things should not be rendered of the substance
 
of Faith; for the denyall of which the crime of Heresy
and Schisme, and for the doubt whereof, the penalty
of rejection from the family, and worke of the Lord must
be inflicted. Rom. 4. c. 15,  The great Apostle every where exhorts,
with all those who hold in the maine the forme of sound
words, 1 Cor. 8. c. 10.  and yet are in other things diversly minded; Phil. 3. 15.  to
preserve the vnitie of the spirit in the bond of peace.
The Lord restore the Churches to their just freedomes
and keepe them from using their  liberty  as an occasion
to the flesh, but by love to serve one another: And the
same God raise and uphold the spirit of all  States  and
 Magistrates  to be  Nu sing Fathers  to them: and continue
to returne this your work of Faith, and labour of love,
seven fold into your bosome. 
 So prayes
An unworthy Minister of
 Christ,  Son of the  Church, 
and servant of this  State. 
JOHN ELLIS.  Jun. 

