
 
 
 To the Right
HONOVRABLE,
ROBERT, Lord Bruce, Baron of Byfleet,
and onely Sonne to the Right Honourable
Thomas, Earle of Elgin. 
 Eleasar Gilbert wisheth all possible Happinesse. 
 Right Honourable, 
 I  Have placed you here in the Frontispiece of my Dedicatory, first because
you have a chiefe place in my affections as one whom God hath
graced with a more than ordinary portion of his Image, for (to speak
without Flattery) what Grace? what Vertue? what endowment, either
of body, mind, or fortune? Finally, what Perfection or Excellency
can make men truly Honourable on Earth, and eternally happy
in Heaven, which doth not shine in your Lordship, in the fullest lustre,
so farre as your condition and yeares can be capable of? insomuch that
if it please the Lord, to addc yeares unto your life, as hee hath gifts
unto your person, a starre more radiant then your selfe, I conceive, in
our age will scarcely appeare in our Brittish Firmament: moreover,
your Lordship may justly challenge the first fruit of my publike labors,
because I had the first encouragement tomy ministerial studies in
your Honourable Familie, under your Right Honourable, most pious,
& never without much Reverence to bee mentioned, Grandmother,
 Magdalen,  Ladie  Bruce,  where I have beene an eye-witnesse of your
vertuous education  ab imis,  as I may say,  incunabulis,  from your
very infancy, and where I have often observed, the most vigilant and
religious care of your Right Honourable Parents, in your vertuous
education, which to this day doth most spectably appeare, as a pattern
of imitation to all the Nobles in the Land. 
 
Goe on therefore most Noble and hopefull Lord, good luck have
you with your Honour, continue that course, in these paths of Vertue,
w ich you have begun to tread, especially seeing you have already made
so good a progresse, for  Dimidium facti, qui bene coepit, habet. 
 And you shall find, that although the way bee thorny, yet the end
shall be Honourable, that paines which you now take, and have taken
to please and serve God, and your right Honourable Parents, shall
produce unto you at length, not onely the favour of God, the love of
your Soveraign,  ōmendation of your equals, & praise of all good men,
but also contentment to your mind, peace unto your conscience, protection
to your person, a blessing unto your estate, and a sweet relish to
all the houours, wealth, and pleasures which you shall afterwards enjoy. 
 Which that you may doe, I shall never be wanting in my best devotion,
to implore the gracious assistance of that Father of lights, the
Watchman of  Israel,  to double his spirit upon you, and wheresoever you
goe, for good to be present with you, to guard you by his Providence,
guide you by his counsell, and when he hath here satiated your Lordship
with honours and pleasures temporall, bring you at length unto
ioyes and happinesse eternall. So prayeth he, who desireth to bee reputed
as he is 
 One of your Lordships most ancient and
affect onately devoted Servants,
Eleazar Gilbert. 
 From my Study in St. Mary-Axe,
 this 8. Decemb. 1641. 

