
 
 
 TO THE HIGH AND MOST ILLVSTRIOVS PRINCE CHARLES, PRINCE OF WALES, DUKE OF CORNEWALL, and Earle of CHESTER. 
 SIR, 
 B Esides the  Honour  your  Highnesse  hath done the  Truth,  by casting so early an eye upon Her, though in the plainest dresse:  You  have given a  Happy Omen  to this  Nation,  that the  True Religion,  which is now trampled under foot by  Heresy,  and  Schisme,  hath yet  Messem in Herbâ,  and is  Revirescent  in  your  tender yeares. As  Theodosius  the  Emperour,  after the  Apostolicall Faith  had beene long buried by the  Arians, Soc. Eccl. hist. l.  5     6.   erected a  Church  in  Constantinople,  and christened it the  Resurrection:  So by  your  timely  Patronage  of the  Truth, You  have raised our  Hopes
 into a  Confidence,  that we shall yet see a  Resurrection:  when the  Kings Crowne  shall rise the  Brighter  out of these  Flames;  and the  Dry bones  of  Learning  and  Religion,  live, and stand, in  Your sight. For  by commanding this Sermon to the  presse, ( Though I must say to  Your Highnesse,  as  Tully  to  Brutus, Quamvis Placebam, nihil feci, quod placeret:  It being like  Martial's Fly,  of no  Worth  in it selfe, but onely for the  Amber  and  Grace You  have cast about it:)  You  have already insome part, They have made lyes their refuge, and under falshood hid themselves. Isai.  28.15.   not onely vindicated the  Kings Honour,  and  Your  owne  Spotlesse Innocency  from the  Blasphemies  of those, who have made  Lyes a refuge:  (For he that pleaseth to read, may here behold the  liberty  and  boldnesse,  we are still allowed against the  Romanists,  Even in the  presence  of our  King, His Posterity,  and the whole  Counsell,)  But also  confirmed  the  Faith  of this  Kingdome,  that according to the  Vnparallel'd Example  of  Your Royall Father,  you will be a  Constant Defender  of the  Protestant Faith,  you have received from a  Religious Education,  To the  glory  of  God,  the future  Tranquillity  of these  Kingdomes,  and your owne  Immortall  Honour, which is the prayer of 
 Your  HIGHNESSE  Truly devoted, but most humble Servant,  RICHARD HARWOOD. 

