
 
 
 TO THE RIGHT Honourable, the  Knights, Citizens  and  Burgesses  of the  Commons  House of  Parliament,  now ASSEMBLED. 
 V Espatian the Emperor,  sent to  ELVIDIUS PRISCUS,  a Senator of  ROME,  charging him not
 
to appeare in the Senate; If hee did to speake no otherwise then what he would have him, to whom he returnd; As a Senator, it was fit he should be there, and being there, hee would freely speak his conscience; The  Emperor  replyed, if he did, he should dye for it: He answered, hee never said he was immortall; doe what you will, J will doe what J ought. Jt is in your power unjustly to put mee to death: It is in my power to dye constantly. 
 It is your Royall priviledge, Your persons are under his Majesties sacred protection, your liberty of speaking, granted to be without interruption,  Awake, Psal. 108 1.   your glory, doe yee your selves awake right early;  Let your hearts be fixed, fixed in the Lord, as the Poles of Heaven, and the center of the earth, Let  Righteousnesse,  bee your Parliament Robes, let Iudgment be your Crown and Diadem,  Iob 29.14.  let causes at your great Tribunall
 
hee heard to speake, not persons; That the blessing of three perishing Kingdomes may come upon you. 
 I was but lately Remov'd into these parts, and one of speciall note forewarnd me, I should be Crucified, as  CHRIST  was betwixt two Theeves; The  Papist,  the  Puritan.  The  Papist,  like the Rayling and Blaspheming Theefe, soone discovered himselfe. They swarme, and are
 
terrible, the shew of their countenance witnesseth against them; Psal. 91.6.   Like destruction, they shew themselves at Noone-Day:  The  Puritan  (if it bee not onely a name, without an existence) is worthy your wisdome, to tell us who he is; It may be, for feare of crucifying, with the good Theefe he is stollen into Paradise; the name is of Vast, and amongst many of Odious signification:  Papists  doe
 
charge the Church of  England  with the heresie of Puritanisme: King  Iames,  by  Bellarmine,  metamorphosed into his Chaplaine, was said to bee a  Puritan;  The English Parliament is called a Puritanicall Parliament. The  Vniversity  of  Oxford,  the strength of Puritanisme.  Bristow  speakes out. All  Protestants  in  ENGLAND  are  Puritans, Protestants  at large, such as are Ambitious of the credit, not of the truth
 
of their holy profession; Heathens in lives, Christians in faith; They reproach civill morall Jnfidels with that name: They  Pharisaicall  Professors; They powerfull CHRISTIANS. 
 Yea, of late I have also heard them much branded with the name, that would not yeeld up their Soules, and their Consciences, to the Chaire of  Bishops,  with their estates, Liberties, and Lives,
 
to the will of their Superiors. The name is very large and very reproachfull: A  Bishop  affirm'd he could as easily fetch one off from the guilt of Felony, as from the imputation of Puritanisme; My humble motion is, make us all  Puritans,  or to leave no  Puritan  amongst us. 
 There are wals of partition, (when those that were of  GODS  Institution, became enmity,  Eph. 2.14.
 
CHRIST  layd them as flat, as the Walls of  Iericho,  with  Iericho's  curse upon them.) Bee pleased to batter down these Wals, lay the Canons in the face of them, and JERƲSALEMS curse upon them; Let not one stone be left upon another: At the first of the Reformation they were, though not necessary, yet, lawfull, our Reformers were modest and moderate; They would not unnecessarily offend
 
the weake Romanist,  GOD  had a People amongst them, the waters of BABYLON were ebbing: But now since the Sea of ROME, like the waters of  JORDAN,  begin to swell, and overflow the Bankes, since the great River  TIBER  flowes apace, since the  Papists  are emboldned, and hardned in their  Idolatrie  and  Superstition,  since the strong, as well as the weake  Protestant,  are grieved
 
and vexed with them, and there are indeed too many false Apostles, that earnestly contend for them, and with a strong and mightie hand obtrude them upon us. Take unto your selves the Zeale of Our  LORD  and  SAVIOUR;  The Evangelist records, hee twice purged the Temple: The multitude of offenders, the might and malice of the observers, the danger of the action, nor the perill of the consequence staies his hand.
 
The  King  of  Scythia  slew  Anacharsis  the Philosopher, for the worshipping the mother of the  GODS,  after the  Athenian  manner; If the Plague of Leprosie could not bee clensed, by taking away a few stones out of the house, but the Leprosie would returne againe, then the house, the Timber, Lev. 14.43, 45.  the Morter must down: when Ceremonies become scandalous, they are to be abolished. 
 These Sermons sute well
 
with two of the greatest workes, the Kingdome expects from you; They breath enmitie to  Rome,  Peace amongst our selves, Preached when the times ranne Counter to both; The man of sinne of late yeares hath reviv'd amongst us, (it may bee a lightening before death,) Popery hath multiplyed abundantly. In  Lancashire  it hath superabounded above an Hyperbole: The Masse hath outfaced
 
our Christian meetings,  Iesuites  have jeered our Ministers, confronted and abused authoritie. 
 MANCHESTER,  the Goshen (accounted) in this  Egypt,  is of late yeares, darkned with the blacknesse of it, some of our prime men in dignitie, authority, power, have revolted to them; Their example commands many, Great men have their followers, of their Vices, as
 
of their persons, and when they please to bee Idolatrous, their children, servants, tenants, their poore kinred, and Jdolizing Neighbours, will to the Masse with them. One speciall cause of this encrease of Popery, is the vastnesse, and the greatnesse of many Parishes, prefer'd to the trust of such, that adde  Church  unto  Church,  themselves residing at neither, or if they are with their people, they
 
are non resident in the midst of them, yea too often when they are in the Pulpit; These Mother-Churches have many daughters, seaven, eight, nine CHAPPELS, subject to them, to which belongs no certaine, or no competent maintenance; Hence ignorance and prophanenesse, desolate places, full of dolefull Creatures,  Ziim  and  Ochim: Isa. 13.21  King  Iames  in his piety and wisdom, appointed  4. Lancashire 
 
Preachers, to perfect his work: Let every Golden Candlestick have his Lamp burning and shining in it: devils could not stand before the Gospell; therefore Popery shall be consumed by it. 2 Thes. 2.8. 
 J had served in these parts, the same time that  PAUL  did at  Athens,  and my spirit was troubled to heare and see, the superstition; Hence, I ventred (with danger enough) to preach these Sermons;
 
may they strengthen your hands in that great worke you are about; Ezra 6.14.  Jt would be the glory of this latter age, could there such a sheete be let downe to the Church, Acts 10.11.  as there was in vision to  Peter,  that the difference of cleane and uncleane may be taken away, such a golden Scepter reach'd out that all may be subdued unto it, and embrace it; O what an honour would it be to the present, and a blessing to the future age, that a consent
 
of Doctrine and discipline might be confirmed by you, that we that professe one Lord, one Faith, one Baptisme, one GOD and Father of all under one King, may be one Church; That a Trinity of Kingdomes, may be a Church in Ʋnity. Pardon my presumption if my zeale for the publicke peace, points at the meanes; A Royall Convocation, rightly constituted unto which all the Kingdomes may send
 
their Clarks would facilitate the businesse, (It would adde much to the glory of it, and be a Crowne unto his Crowne who accounts it the most glorious in all his Crowne to be worthy of that Title,  Defender of the Faith,  if from all the reformed CHƲRCHES, some may be invited, if not to vote, yet at least to assist. 
 The reason wherefore Generall, Nationall, Provinciall Councells, have in this
 
last Century beene so fatall, and therefore by some of singular eminency beene disclaimed, as a meete meanes for the settling of peace, is because the greatest part have their standing Votes, who will ever maintaine a strong partie for themselves; Is it equall that  Arch-Bishops, Bishops, Deanes, Arch-Deacons,  Chapter men, should of course, and by reason of their dignities have their places & their suffrages, when but two Clerks
 
are elected by the choise of the  Clergie;  May the Election of the  Clarks  for the Convocation be as free as yours for the  Parliament,  and in some proportion unto it, J doubt not but we should be as happy in our Canons, as we are in your Statutes. 
 There hath been strange batteries made upon our Religion, the thirty nine Articles are challenged by the Harlot,  Papists  and  Arminians  claime them as
 
theirs, the Booke of Homilies are disclaimed, unheard of violation hath bin offered to the second, to the fourth Commandements, Preaching is cryed downe, Preachers discountenanced. The Sacraments have beene defiled, the people of the Lord have beene made to abhorre the offering of the Lord, Presse and Pulpit have vomited forth corrupt and undigested matters.  Augustus  made a Bonefire of all such bookes, that
 
corrupted the  Roman  Ethnick  Religion,  it would be your wisdome to make a diligent search for all Apocryphall books, Hereticall, Popish, Semi-pelagian Pamphlets, slanderous Libels, and impertinent writings, and to sacrifice them to  Vulcan.  We pray for great things to be done by you, we have open our mouthes wide to the Lord we have heard of great things of you: Ps. 81.10  the Lord prosper you to an happy, and blessed conclusion, for a glorious reformation
 
of  Church  and  Common-Wealth;  The Counsellor,  The mightie God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of peace, he upon whose shoulder the government lyes; Isa. 9.6, 7  increase your government and peace, order you and stablish you with judgment, and justice, henceforth for ever: the Zeale of the Lord of  HOSTS,  performe this. 
 Your Honours in all sincerity service and dutie,  Richard Heyricke. 

