
 
 
 To the Right Honourable  Sir Iames Stanley  of the honourable order of the  Bath Knight, Lord Stanley  and  Strange,  Lord of  Man,  and of the  Isles,  Lord  Lievtenant  of the County of  Palatines  of  Lancaster,  and  Chester,  of the City  Chester  and County of the same,  Chamberlaine  of the County  Palatine  of  Chester  aforesaid, Son and  Heire  apparant of the Right Honorable William Earle of  DERBIE, And my very Honourable good Lord and Patron, Honour and Glory. 
 Right Honourable, 
 H E that was both an Eccl. 1.1.   Ecclesiastes,  and a King ( Salomon ) both in the Pulpet and the Throne, as  Preacher  and a  King  preferres Eccl. 7.1.  a good name to pretious Oyntment, and holds it Pro. 22.1.  rather to be Chosen then the greatest riches: the foundation of which structure (as appeares by severall Histories, both Holy and Humane) is not laid in greatnesse, but in goodnesse. For by this the He. 11.2.39.  Elders both of former and latter times, obtained a good report: hence came 1 Chro. 49.8, 9:  labez to be more honorable than his brethren, because he called upon the God of Israel. The
 Bereans  to be more noble than those of  Thessalonica,   Acts  17.11  because they were more ready in hearing, more diligent in examining the Scriptures, than the others were: And from hence was this of the Agesilaus.   Spartan King  to one that extold the magnificence of the  Persian,  wherein (says he) is he greater than I, except hee be more just than I? But there are too many that like 1  Sam.  15 24   Saul  and 2  Sam  15.6   Absolon,  do float upon another Rev.  4.6  glassie Sea, and fill their sailes with the wind of vanity, and being regardlesse of true honour, hunt too eagerly after popular applause, to make their names great, only in the eyes and mouths of men; forgetting that precept and principle of our Saviour, to Luke  10.20  Rejoyce rather that their names are written in Heaven, where onely both names and Honours are out of danger of defacing; but 1  Sam.  15 28.  these like those, what they least feare they soonest feel: and which they most seeke they seldom'st finde. For as their Fraught is but Folly, and their TRAFICKE in this Voyage is but 2  Sam.  18 14.  Pride and Vanity: So is their gaine nothing but shame, sorrow and infamy, a Returne in Saint  Pauls   Ro.  2.8, 0  Rom.  6.23  Heb.  2.2.  opinion very sutable to such an adventure, wages and recompences very answerable to such services. The way amongst the Ancient Plutarch.   Romans  to the  Temple 
 of Honour, was through the  Temple  of Vertue; and that hangs upon the File of 1  Sam.  2.30  Eternity, would be remembred in every House as well as in  Elies  House; that those that honour God, God will honour them, when such as doe despise Him by preferring the Iohn  12.43  praise of men before the praise of God, shall be despised. 
 And now who knoweth said  Mordecay  to  Esther,   Esther.  4.7  nay who knoweth not  (my much honoured Lord)  that knowes your Lordship; But that you have come to this height of Honour and have advanced your name and Family, that you have (as the Prophet of say   2.23   Eliakim ) beene for a glorious Throne to the house of your Fathers; and all this, and more then this, by the better & more excellent way, by adding goodnes to Greatnesse; to Highnesse Holinesse; by adding knowledge to your yeares, Grace to your knowledge, (Practise to both,) by 1  chr.  17.8 25.  building and beautifying of Gods House, who both hath and will build and beautifie yours. For the furtherance of which I shall not only with Zach.  4.7.   Zacharies Angel, Bring forth the head   Wherein is engraven in golden Charactors Ego Tibi, tu mihi Domū.   Stone, and crie Grace Grace unto it;  But as that other to  Gideon  [shall wish you the wishes of your dedication, and say] Iudg.  6.12.   Iehova est tecum, valentissime robore, The Lord be
 with thee thou mighty man of Valour.  And for the continuance of which Exemplary acts and fruites of Piety and honour, I do offer here to your Lordships protection and acceptance these following Lines and Labours, which containe the Holy Life and happy Death of One who in his time was one of the vid. title page,  Lords worthies, one who had attaind to this honour to bee a blessing to himselfe and to others also, to bee a good man, and to have a Psa. 32.10. prov. 10.7.  good name well worthy that honourable mention and Elogie wherewith the  Iewish Rabbins  were wont to speake of their best and chiefest Authors,   A man of blessed memorie,  whole blessed and Sacred memoriall, I humbly crave (right Honourable) may finde a Shield and shelter under your Wings; so shall it bee borne from the  Egypt  of detraction and calumnie, (as once was Gods  Israel, quasi sub alis aquilarum ) as upon Exo. 19.4   Eagles  wings. 
 My Lord, he is in some sort Luk. 7, 4.5.  worthy for whom you should doe this, for hee hath loved (while he lived) our nation, and hath built though not a materiall, yet a Spirituall House of God, amongst them with whom he lived, and that in such a way as may multiply honour to your Lordship, by manifesting your good affection to his vertues
 and your resolution to preserve his memory. The booke hath need of a high Patronage, and flies to Alterius sic altera poscitopem, Hor:  yours. Vouchsafe it then  Right Honourable,  though you need not it, yet (as the Reverend  Bishop   Histeward complaining of extraordinary expnces occasion'd through multitude of servants, he cals for a catalogue of their names and seeing who were serviceable, & who uselesse, said, these I will keepe because Inced them, and those because they need me.   Alonso Cartilio  to his servant) because it needs you. 
 I know ther's no analogie in state or place, in imployments, or indowments, betwixt your Lordship and this Gentleman, who was  Inferioris Subsellij,  of a farre inferiour rancke and quality: yet may your Honour, if you please to stoope so 1 Sam: 25 30 31, 32, 33, 34 2 King 5.13.14. Iob 31.13, 14  low as to looke to his example, find many things worthy of your observation, and not a few worthy of imitation also. 
 But I feare that like the Ambassadors of  Samos,  I shall offend in  Prolixitie.  I will therefore now with  Plutarchs Cranes  in their flight over mount In Sicily where they stop their mouths with stones. V.M.A.p.H, O.   Taurus,  stop my mouth, lest by too much noyse I awaken and disturbe the Eagle (I flye to) and so become a prey: to prevent which, I love onely the posture and Language of the  Getulian  captive to the  Lyon, Indigna sum ejus gloria   Apuila hon capit muscas.   praeda,  I am not worthy of your anger, yet feare to provoke it, but shall not neede while I become as best becomes me, an Corporamagna nimo fatis est protrasse Leoni.  humble suppliant to your Lordship as well for pardon, as for Patronage, and to the Protector of Princes
 for his Pro. 3.16.  right and left hand blessings, to bee ever multiplyed upon you and yours, that your honour may long continue like  Eliakim, Velut.   Esa. 22.23.   Paxillum in loco firmo,  that you may live in your selfe, your illustrious Lady, your numerous and their honoured off-spring, and in all that have relation to your Lordship in the direct line or collaterall; to emulate and outstrip the best and bravest of your glorious Ancestors, that succeeding Ages may never close the  Annalls  of your Princely Family with a
 Hift. chro.  Degenerem{que}, Neoptolemum. 
 But with that rather wherewith the  Delphick   Pl. cher.   O racle  honored that King of  Sparta, 
 Ultimus heroum Cleomenes Astypalaeus.  The God of all happinesse and blessing multiply all 38 graces and honours to you and yours, Ios. 19.15  in this life, by guiding you with his counsell, and in the next by receiving you all into His Glory, which shall bee the continued prayer of him who by many Obligations stands bound to acknowledge and subscribe himselfe in all humility and observance, 
 My Lord, 
 Your Lordships most humble and thankefull Servant and Chaplaine.  S. HINDE. 

