
 
 
 TO THE KINGS MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTIE CHARLES, By the Grace of God, King of  England, Scotland, France,  and  Ireland,  &c. 
 Most Gracious Sovereign, 
 I  Had not adventured to bring these unpolished meditations into the publick  light,  much lesse to have set them before the  Sunne,  but that Your Majestie was pleased to becken them to Your self, and to draw them as by Your own beams, so under Your own shade into Your  Royall Presence,  that being first animated with the gentlenesse of Your beams, they might not be dazled with the splendour. Neither is this the least of Your  Princely excellencies, 
 that You please as Christ in the Gospel,  to come down from the Mount, 
 Matth. 8.1.  for the more free accesse of Your people; and know, with  Moses,  to put the  vail  of  Goodnesse  over the  shinings  of  Majestie,  so that the meanest of Your subjects may be refresht with the  light  of Your countenance notwithstanding the  lustre,  and draw livelihood from the  splendour,  through the  serenitie,  finding the medium of their happinesse as well as the object to be, under God, in Your Self. It is not to be expected at this present, that the irradiations of this light should be so vigorous in a cloudy Region: we now see to our grief what a misery it is to have the Royall influence intercepted as of late it hath been, and still is, by those disastrous obstructions, which at first had onely the appearance of  Elia's  cloud,
 1. Kings 18.44.  like  the hand of a man;  but are since grown to that vastnesse, as they threaten to the whole Kingdome such ruine as our sinnes call for: Yet in the midst of these sad distractions, it is Your Majesties comfort, that as their occasions are from below, so their disposall is from above, both for the exercise of Your Princely  clemency  and  patience,  and for the triall of the  sincerest loyaltie  of Your subjects; yea, and religious hearts, through all these clouds, can discern, and do with thankfulnesse acknowledge
 the saying of Solomon to be most true,
 Prov. 16.15.   In the light of the Kings countenance there is life:  the life of the whole  State,  that it may happily rise to the former glory, wherein it so long flourished: the life of the  Church,  that it may recover out of this sad languishing condition into which it is brought: the life of the  Universities,  that they may fruitfully spread forth their numerous branches to all parts of the Land: Lastly, the life of this small inconsiderable  Tractate  in as many degrees, as Nature hath bestowed it upon man; in that Your Majestie vouchsafed, first to require a copie in writing, then to command it to the Presse, then to afford it Your Patronage, whilest it presenteth to the world some little portion of that great happinesse, which this eighteen years we have enjoyed, under your blessed government. I wish the Argument had had a better workman, but what is defective in the Sermon, shall be supplied by my prayers, That the  happinesse  hereafter spoken of, howsoever it be now eclips'd, may again shine forth in full strength, through Your Majesties great prudence; whose Royall beams as they are powerfull for the fostering of piety, so I hope they shall be powerfull also for the dispelling of all foggie vapours, that may hazard either to prejudice the welfare of Your people, or
 to pervert their allegiance. Which as it hath been hitherto untainted, to the envie of other Nations and honour of our own: So, that it may be alwayes inviolably preserved, is the daily prayer of 
 Your MAjESTIES humblest subject and servant, 
Ri. Holdsworth. 

