
 
 TO THE RIGHT VVorshipfull Master VVILLIAM BIRCH, Maior, together with his Brethren, and the rest of the inhabitants of the famous town of  Plymouth. 
 The best blessings of this life, and everlasting blessednesse in the life to come. 
 T He  In hac Dominica (quae septima est ab illa quae septuagisima vocatus) Romanus Pontifex celebraturus ad Ecclesiam pergens & rediens ab eadem, auream in manu sub aspectu populi fert rosam, &c. Durand. Rational D in offi ▪  6 f 120 Pope of  Rome  is wont to exhibite, and to shew forth once a yeer on a
 
Lords day unto his  Roman  people, a certain glistering, and glorious Rose to signifie the LORD JESUS, who in my text resembleth himself to a Rose most faire and fragrant. 
 The consideration whereof (I confesse ingeniously) moved me not a little to think more seriously of this most excellent comparison, then ever I did before; for a man (being a Minister) cannot but reason thus
 
with himself: if he whom we Protestants judge to be against Christ take it upon him thus solemnly to put men in mind of the Lord Christ, by shewing unto them a Rose emblematizing Christ, how much more should we Evangelicall Teachers, who professe our selves to be all for Christ, shew forth unto our Christian people their Lord and Master Christ not onely once a yeer, as he his Golden
 
Rose, but as much as possibly we can, by our often preaching, and publishing the Gospel fo Christ (that most sweeet and redolent Rose of  Sharon ) whereby we may hope to do infinitely more good unto Gods Orthodoxe people, then he by shewing a Rose artificially unto his super-stitious Romans. 
 For the  Triplex autem est in h c flore materia, aurum videlicet Muscus & Balsamum. Idem fol. 121. matter of that Rose is but, 
 
 1. Gold. 
 2. Musk. 
 
 3. Balsame. 
 
 But the matter of the Gospel, (whiche he preacheth not) is  Not signified onely but profered whereas the Popes Rose is but significant as they say.  Christ himself the Rose celestiall, which is more fragrant then Musk, and more medicinall then Balsame, as I have endeavoured to make it appear, as evidently and manifestly as I could in this Treatise, which through importunity) I have been animated to publish, and now am bold to tender
 
unto you first, because you heard me preach first (in your own Parochiall Temple the last Winter) of this most delicious Rose, which is Christ himself blessed forever. 
 To say no more now of the said Rose it self, because I affect brevity in a Preface, I shall but crave the good blessing of our good God upon my poor indeavours, that they may prove as beneficiall unto you as my
 
enlarged heawrt towards you, my most respected, kinde, and loving neighbours, doth desire it. 
 Yours in Christ,  C.J. 

