
 
 
 To my much respected and deerely beloved friends, The Inhabitants of the town of  Stonehouse. 
 Grace, Mercy, Peace and comfort from Jesus Christ the most precious and comfortable  Rose of Sharon. 
 S Eeing it hath pleased the Lord Christ first to move me to select this subject, and to spend my Meditations upon it, and good Christians next again and again to desire it, while I was yet teaching of it, before I could finish it, that it might be copied out, and communicated unto themselves and others, I could not well with a safe conscience
 detaine i . For if he that reserves corn and will not spare it to those that need it, be lyable to a
 Prov. 11.26.  curse. I might justly feare lest I also keeping back the spirituall food of the soul-fatting word of God, when it is thus earnestly craved, should incurre the same horrible danger of being accursed. Better it was therfore and safer for me to expose my self to a censure (which being a stranger and most insufficient, I cannot well avoyd) then to a curse. 
 And now for as much as those hungry souls have moved me at last to impart it, as not daring to deny it, I could do no lesse then expresse my singular care for you, and great love,
 which I beare towards you, by sparing the same spirituall alimonie unto you in speciall, and making you partners with those, who were served first, because they came first, and heard me first, when I distributed and divided the word of truth first, touching that most sweet and medicinall  Rose of Sharon Christ Iesus  blessed for ever. 
 Nor may you be offended w th  me for making you partners onely, and not sole owners, for 
 1. You loose nothing by that, having as much as they. 
 2. Besides that sweet Rose, of the which I treat here, is a Rose of the field, and not of a garden, and therefore ought not to be enclosed, as garden Roses are
 and reserved by a few, but rather as common be imparted unto many. And therefore it is my heartie vote, and the thirsting desire of my soul, that not you onely, and those to whom I dedicate this book as joyntpartners with you, but also all others, that shall reade it, may take and own that most needfull and wholsome spirituall food, the preaching I meane of Christ, the sweet  Rose of Sharon,  and most nutritive bread of Life, who in those Sermons made publike for the good of all, is profered and tendered unto all. 
 Your loving Friend and Minister, C. I. 

