
 
 
 To the most Noble Patriot, and my most worthy Patron Sir  Edward Scot  of  Scots-hall,  Knight of the  Bath;  together with the Lady  Mary Scot;  his most worthy and religious Consort: Grace, Mercy and Peace be multiplyed in our Lord Jesus Christ. 
 SAd experience telleth even good Christians, how weak their
 
owne spirits are in the sore trials of these distracting times, even where their peace and comforts are continued, before they are put to suffer as their brethren abroad do. Fears of evill threatned doe much disquiet them, and too often suspend their faith from doing the due and proper office of it: So that they deserve a check for
 
their unbeliefe, in the words of our Lord;  Why are ye fearfull O ye of little faith?  Mat.  8.26.  And yet because they dislike and struggle with this unbeliefe, they deserve pitty, and to be helped against it; which was the occasion of these meditations at the first and now of publishing them. 
 And for this Dedication 
 
of them to your worthy selves, the cause is apparant: Partly I would help forward your comfort in God, after all your activity and charge in the  great Cause  of God now in agitation. Partly I would make knowne your exemplary love to the work of God,  both in times of peace,  maintaining a Lecture at your owne
 
cost, and spending much upon the poore, upon Ministers and others;  and in these times of warre,  exhausting your estate to buy Arms, Horses, and provisions of divers kinds for helping the Lord against the mighty; beside your continuall cares and counsels for the publike, and for the peace of our County, which (amongst
 
other our Worthies) oweth much to your worship for the safety of it, and repelling of the enemy. Your  Martiall Family  hath gained much honour hereby among all godly and understanding Christians. And partly I would hereby tell the world, that to me and mine you have bin a most free and loving Patron, and was the
 
like to my Predecessor and his Family: The Lord returne into your bosome seven fold, add to your dayes abundantly, give you health take away or mittigate those paines you are sometimes subject unto, strengthen you in the inner man by his Spirit, fill you and yours with all heavenly graces and comforts, keepe you unblamable
 
to his Kingdome and glory, and give you (with us) to see the peace of Sion againe established, with the utter disappointment of all the enemies. Which are the daily prayers of 
 May 26. 1644. 
 Your worships much obliged  William Jemmat. 

