
 
 
 To the Right Honourable, Sir PETER VVITCH, Knight, Comptroller of the Kings House-hold, and one of his Majesties most Honourable Privy Counsell. 
 Right Honourable, 
 T He impressions of benefits from equalls, should have no other Table then the heart to be planted in. The great distance betwixt your Honour and my poore selfe (in the remembrance of your many favours) may justly chalenge more then my heart, if more could be given up of me. 
 As a weake witnesse of my will,
 these papers seeke your honours protection and perusall, not as a Debt paid, there is neither in them, nor me, a worthinesse to deserve that Title, either in the condition of them, as meriting to be called a debt; or satisfaction, paid; I can never attaine unto it. 
 VVhat I owe you sir, is my life, in a miserable Bondage supported by you, in visiting me with your many reliefes, when I languished under the burthen of Captivity in  Constantinople,  there Feeding,  loathing, and from thence redeeming me, (in the mercies of God) and in mee my life, which I owe you: the principall is in the hands of the Creator, but you Sir have interest in it, by these obligations, and I will pay that in my prayers for you, which is the best use of it. 
 
 Your goodnes Right Honourable, lookt right forward, and survayd our calamity, and no other respect, with a compassion wedded onely to it selfe, and our sorrowes. Great men use to sell their Labours, and give for a return, you sir did neither: the subjects of your pitty are witnesses; being many, whom in your honourable Embassie from his Majesty, to the  G. S.  abundantly tasted your charities, that were cloath'd in no other Garment then their owne, not for a moneth or failing, but to enstating in a better being, and free. 
 Your Honours house was a Sanctuary to those Captives could escape into it, your presence was the fu-ll of their hopes, your absence is a Frost unto them, and in that, your memory is their teares. 
 
 Your vertuous Lady, stood up the mirrour of her Sex, in her frequent bounties to us all, being not onely tyed to you in the sacred bands of wedlocke, but in these of Piety and pitty, which are the Seales, and markes of a Religious and understanding spirit: and where the compassion of some (in vaine glory) is limited but to some onely, to purchase a Title, & no more; yours was perfect, and extended to all, which is a treasure cannot be exhausted, but will distribute  Honour  to you, both in this life, and everlasting comfort in the world to come. 
 Your Honours most humble Servant, in all acknowledgment:  Daniel Lakin. 

