
 
 
 To the right Worshipfull
 
 Sir  William Brereton,  Baronet. 
 Peter Venables,  Esquire, Baron of Kinderton Knights of the Shire for the County Palatine of Chester. 
 
 
 and 
 
 Sir  Thomas Smith. 
 And To the Worshipfull  Francis Gamull,  Esquire. 
 Burgesses for the Citie of Chester. 
 
 
 John Ley  wisheth the welfare of this, and the other World. 
 Right Wor ll . and worthy Sirs, 
 A S the good providence of God, and the good will of your Countrie have sorted you together, in the designe of publicke service of the Church and State; so your united Interests in the  cause  and  composer  of this Booke, have joyntly rather claimed as a dutie, then invited as a courtesie, that I should present it to publicke
 view under all your names. It proposeth and pursueth many (as I hope a judicious Reader will upon serious perusall find them) just and weighty exceptions against the late Oath of the sixth Canon; wherein it waiteth upon the wisdome and justice of your Honourable House of Commons, who have voted it, to vanish like the smoake of a Canon, without a Bullet (making a great sound, but doing no hurt) to avow your righteous and religious Act therein, against the mis-conceit of such as, either partially or perversly, misdeeme the deserved doome which you have passed upon it. And if now (by your hands) it may come to the eyes of your venerable Associates, it may haply find such acceptance in their sight, that by your common favour it may have the honour to appeare before the right Honourable Lords of the Upper House of Parliament, and to represent us (who were most exposed to the perill of the Canonicall Decree) the more capable of the concurrent Grace of you all, in the full and finall abrogation thereof. 
 And for my selfe (besides my generall engagements,
 with thousands who owe you the affectionate observance of publicke Patriots and Patrons, in the places to which you are called) the particular favours which I have received from you in severall, oblige mee this or any other way (wherein I may doe you any acceptable service) to expresse my selfe 
 Yours, most ready to attend you with humble observance, JOHN LEY. 
 From my Lodging at the Fountaine in Pauls Church-yard,  Febr. 22, 1640. 

