
 
 
 TO THE RIGHT WORSHIPFVLL And worthy Knight S r .  Simon Archer,  and to the vertuous Lady, the Lady  Anne Archer  his wife:  I. L.  wisheth the most desirable welfare of both worlds. 
 Right Worshipfull, 
 B Y these Papers which now I send you, your suspensive thoughts of my silence (wherein I conceive your charity would not bee forward to condemne me of neglect) may receive satisfaction and assurance, that I have neither forgotten, how much your goodnesse hath engaged me to you and yours, nor am willing to pretermit any fit opportunity, which may represent
 me as gratefull to my friends, as they are gracious to me. They had sooner appeared in your sight, if dutie to the publike had not anticipated my time and endeavours for another service. 
 And yet they are now so much more seasonable, as time hath the more reduced you, to that dispassionate temper, wherein you were, before your hopefull Sonne, had made his happy change from Earth to Heaven. And surely a departure hence to such a blessed place, must needes be then most happy, when remaining here (as now if ever) is most perilous. 
 I shall not need then (I hope) for support of your patience to presse upon you (in particular) the consideration either of his high advancement, above the state of  Mortalitie  and misery, or of GODS peculiar right, to  doe with his owne as hee will,  Matthew 20.15. Or mans common lot, which is alwayes to be so subject unto death, that the
 Hebreum nomen  Methim  per sceva: significat mortales, per  tzere:  mortuos.  Marian.  Annot. in  Deut. 2 34.  &  Lorinus  in eundem locum.  Tom. 1.  Com. in  Deu.  p.  106.  col.  1.  word in the Hebrew (which in English is rendred  men, Deutr.  2.34. with the various situation of two little prickes) signifieth as (some observe) both mortall or lyable to death, and dead
 indeed. And when it is the generall condition of all man-kinde, it is held by the wise an  Argument of
 Quis tam superbae impotentis{que} arrogantiae est, ut in hac naturae necessitate (omnia in eundem finem revocantis) se unum ac suos se poni, velit.  Sen.  de consolat. ad  Polyb.  c.  24.  impotence or arrogance for any to expect a particular exception of themselves or theirs. 
 Nor because his death was (in respect of the ordinary course of mans life) unexpected or sodaine, will it be requisite to commend to your serious meditation, the saying of
 Stultissim  sunt, qui de morte immaturâ quaeruntur,  Lactant.  de Opificio hominis. ca.  4.   Lactantius,  censuring the  folly of those, who complaine of deaths immaturity,  or the opinion of
 Plin. Nat. Hist. l.  7.  cap.  53.   Pliny, That sodaine death is the greatest happinesse that can befall man. 
 It will bee enough, if with the piety and prudence, (wherewith you were wont to read such serious and sad discourses) you please to entertain this, which I here present to your attentive perusall. And although it be thus now proposed to common view, it is yours, by peculiar interest, and that two fold. 
 The one  Naturall  in his name, and by his occasion, who (in part) by  Nature  once was yours, but now by grace and glory is wholly Gods. 
 The other  Morall,  as from my selfe, who have a power, and hold my selfe obliged in
 Iustice  to doe you right herein, and in  Gratitude  to give some publike Testimony (in this kind) how much I am, and desire to remaine upon record 
 From my lodging at the Bishops head in  Pauls -Church-yard,  May  10. 1643. 
 In most faithfull and affectionate endeavours your devoted Servant,  Iohn Ley. 

