
 
 
 TO The Right Honourable, the  Knights, Citizens  and  Burgesses  Assembled in the Commons House of  PARLIAMENT:  And in that Numerous Assembly to the Worthy  SPEAKER,  His much Honoured,  IOHN SELDEN,  ESQUIER, with the rest of the Learned long ROBE. 
 T His  Treatise  of the most Ancient Court  Leets (Right Honourable)  containes in it the severall Crimes and Offences there inquirable, as well by the  Common
 Law  as by diverse  Statutes,  whereof many of this great  Congregation  had a Vote and interest in the making. 
 Jt hath bin the work of many intercisive houres, and had a whole  winter-Age  under the over-sight of a  Iudge, Sir  Edward Coke.  famous in his time, somtimes an Honourable  member  of former  Parliaments.  How it was entertained by him, and with what benediction it returned to the  Author  from him, is well knowne to a Gentleman yet living, his then  Amanuensis.  Since it pleased his late  Majesties  Attorney generall, upon  a  reference to him from his Sacred  Majesty,  dated  December 1634. Tho. Tesdall  Esquier.  to recommend the examination of this worke, and the Statutes therein cited to an able Counsellor,
 of Grayes-Inne, who after a deliberate perusall and consideration had of it, did at the end thereof Certifie his opinion in these words. 
 I have seriously perused this Tract concerning Court Leets, 13.  Iuly  1636.  and finde it to bee compiled with much care and diligence; And I conceive generally well composed and usefull to bee published. 
 Not long after this the Decree of the  Star-Chamber  intervening for limitation of the Presse upon some strict termes, 
 This little  Creature  had the happinesse to be reserved for these long lookt for times. The motive inducing the publishing of it is a three-fold engagement of the  Author. 
 
 1.  Debitum reipublicae,  a debt due from him to the Common-wealth, for expiation of the many lost and mispent houres of pretious  time. 
 2. Jt is  debitum professionis,  a debt of his calling or profession, wherin every man is but a  Steward,  and must render an accompt; Hee must not  reponere talentum in sudario,  but so order and improve it, that hee may be enabled to cast, if not a  Talent,  yet a  Mite  into the  Common Treasury. 
 3. In Vita Aturedi.  It is  debitum promissionis in praelo,  a debt of  Promise  and that in the Presse. All legall promises, especially those which are publikely attested, are inviolably to be observed: Now the end of publishing it, is for the common good: For sithenoe the  Leet  is justly termed  schola insigniendi
 juvenes,  It is very necessary that the sonnes and servants of Farmers, Yeomen and others versed in rurall affaires, should bee disciplined in the Lawes, under the government whereof they live and have their  protection.  And for their better instruction, J have in the rehearsall of the severall Statutes declared the paines and penalties, for the benefit of persons who have not Statutes at large or abridgements.  Reverend Master Crompton,  in the Dedication of his  Iustice of Peace,  affirmeth that hee thought fit to set downe the penalties and punishments due to every offence mentioned in the charge contained in that booke, in pursuance of the Order and method prosecuted by the Honourable, Sir  Anthony Fitzharbert,  in his treatise of that Subject, and
 in  imitation  of the usage and custom of the  Iustices  of Assize in their Circuits, deeming it necessary to informe the people as well of the punishment, as of the offence. And if  parvis fas sit componere magna,  I have presumed to take my  patterne  thence, that offenders may know the proportion of their paine as well as the quality of their crime. And now, right  honourable,  this  treatise,  together with the other annexed, the  Author  doth most submissively present unto this thrice  Honourable  Assembly, humbly imploring the vouchsafement of Your  Honourable Licence  and safe Conduct for those innocent  Twinnes  to passe cheerefully into the world; That they may be disposed and imployed to that end for which they were compiled as Your  Honours  shall
 thinke fit. The  God  of all  Counsell  and  Consolation  be present and President in all your religious Counsells and Consultations, and multiply his blessings upon this whole body, as well in all your publike, as private affaires; For which the  Author  will never cease incessantly to pray. 
 Rob. Powell. 

