
 
 TO  THE VVORSHIPFVLL the MAJOR, BAYLIFFS, and Burgesses of the Burough of  Abingdon, in the County of  BERKS. 
 All Health, Happinesse, & Prosperity. 
 W Orthy Senators, and loving Master . It is not unknowne unto you, what great deliverances, what rich endowments (both naturall and supernaturall) and what Halcion daies, the propitious hand of mercy hath continually conferred upon this our flourishing Nation. Jf I should endeavour to set forth the riches, or to give you a List of the number of them, I should swell this small Rivelet, into a boundlesse Ocean of substance, and matter: and indeed my insufficient undertakings were not able to effect such an unconceavable taske, and labour (the worth of them being not to be paralleld by any stranger Nation, and their number being not to be cast up by the art of any mentall invention) But yet, J must not forget one, (and not the smallest) of our kingdomes benefits; namely, (the unexpected making up of great Brittaines dangerous Breaches) The mercy was great, and the miracle wonderfull. I need not further enlarge my selfe, for the severall
 tongues of skilfull Divines, have sufficiently dilated the story of this blessed pacification: neither indeed is it the maine substance of the businesse I have in hand. It was the Kings, and court of Parliaments good pleasures to publish, and decree, that, on the seventh day of September last, every parish should keep a Festivall (religiously to be perform'd) in honour of the great Peacemaker. And to shew in what manner, fashion, and order it was, in your famous Incorporation, on that day celebrated, J have (in this small Poem) adventured to set forth to the view of this censuring age: And unto your Worships J humbly dedicate the same, whose patronizing wings (I trust) will shelter it from the dangerous assaults of any carping, or detracting Zoilus. Your frownes will make me unfortunate; but your smiles will adde an encouragement to my weake and illiterate studies. Let this harmelesse and small Pamphlet finde acceptance, and favourable entertainment at your charitable censures, and you shall alwaies finde me (as in duty I ought to be) 
 Your Worships obsequious Officer & servant.  JO. RICHARDSON. 

