
 
 
 To the Right Honourable, and his
very good Lord, ROBERT Earle of Warwicke,
Baron of Leez, &c. 
 The AUTHOUR of this TREATISE
wisheth all Health, Honour,
and Happinesse. 
 Right Honourable: 
 W Hen I was first intended this Discourse
(being some yeares si ce) me thought
I felt in my selfe a desire of some intermission
from former Arguments
of deeper exercise, and more spirituall
nature: as conceiving that a
Morall Theme might, another while,
both revive my wearied spirits, and
perhaps delight the Reader with variety. Hereupon I considered
wh t Object in this kinde might most fitly sort with
my thoughts; and  fter some inquiry, both the many complaints
of the married, and daily questions moved unto mee
by such as inte ded marriage  as also secondly those notorious
errours and corruptions which (through sin and Satan)
have insinuated, nay pierced the very entrals of this State;
and lastly (which is worst of all) those infinite pollutions of
body and minde, in all degrees of men both naturall and unnaturall,
moved me with resolution to fasten upon this Argument.
But notwithstanding the pregnancy of these inducements,
the Theme seemed so weighty, that I was forced to
 
search what furniture I had stored up for such a worke. And
at last I found the case to stand with me, as it doth with two
friends, who through discontinuance, or absence, have waxen
strange each to other; untill by some faire occasion of meeting
they h p to renew their acquaintance. So stood the case
betweene my selfe and these Meditations, which gave the
first draught of the Treatise ensuing; which since my first
preaching thereof lay long by mee, as halfe forgotten; but
now seemed to present themselves to my view with double
appetite and savour, as promising to be materiall and usefull
for the bettering of publique manners, and helping to redresse
the corruptions of the time. Accordingly therefore shaking
off the dust and soyle of my Papers, I have bestowed some
paines to contrive them into some such order and expression,
as might (if not satisfie the curious, yet) profit the desirous
of cou sell and resolution in cases of this nature. 
 You see (Right Honourable) how bold I am to draw you
from your deeper occasions, to listen a while to these private
notions of mine: which I presume (out of your facility to
give best construction to things) you will not disdaine to doe.
To proceed then: Alas! How evident is it, by mens practice,
that although all confesse they ought to be religious (and who
now adayes is otherwise?) yet few will admit the yoake of
God upon their necke, in the wise undergoing of those relations
wherein they stand obliged? Among which this of
marriage is a rooted and fundamentall one, as being in order
before the rest; and such an one as either affords influence
and sap to them (both Family, Polity, and Church) or else
inferres a blemish and aspersion upon them all. So that, if
men would derive the savour and power of godlinesse into
this estate of life, seasoning it with the graces of self-deniall,
and faith, and holinesse; they should (doubtlesse) enjoy it in
a farre more sweet and contentfull sort then now they doe,
 
while they detaine this truth in unrighteousnesse, separating
the thing: which God hath united. 
 Men tell us, they will heare Preachers (while they keepe
their bounds) while they teach them onely faith and repentance;
but if they will  eeds meddle with a more close and
neare search of their l ves and relations their callings, companies,
tradings, liberties; or if they will pry into their more
retired wayes, their closets, chambers and marriages, then,
as he who raged against  Elisha  for the discovering and defeating
of his plots to the King of Israel: 2 King 6. 13.  so these recoyle at
the Minister, and threaten they will give him over. They
tell him they can teach him as good passages and rules of experience
as himselfe can. So far are they from standing to
Gods Bar in these points▪ and say, They knew them ere hee
knew what his Bookes meant; they are neere a kin to that
lascivious Poet, Catull. Epigr. Castum esse decet, & pium Poetam, Ipsum: versic los nihil necesse est.  who being told of his unchaste Epigrams,
answered thus, Its true indeed, its meet that the Poet him
selfe bee chaste, but as for his verses, let them have their
course, to shew the Authors wit and skill, it matters not what
they be. So say these, We grant all, that we must bee honest
folke, but that our marriage actions should run in the stream
of Religion we deeme it nice, and more then needs. Subtill
men (we say float a oft and dwell in universals, but bring
them to the particular, Camerar. fab.  .  shew them Rhodes, and the stage
whereon they should dance, and then they are at a set, their
great skill suddenly failes them. 
 Howbeit, if wee looke into the Scriptures▪ we shall meeet
with some whose very marriages have beene cast into the
mould of obedience. Not to urge the rules which  Paul  gives
to husbands and wives, both for their entrance upon, and cohabitation
in that condition; Luc. 1. 6.  we read of  Z chary  and  Elizabet, 
both which were just, walking before God in all his
commands without reproofe: that is, they practised piety,
 
righteousnesse, and sobernesse, in the state of marriage. How
could they walke in all Commands, b lking the fifth, which
urgeth Religion in our particular state of life? But what say
men to this? Surely as the Papists tell us,  ssurance of salvation
belongs to  Peter  a d  Paul,  and such as had speciall
revelations, but its no ordinary mans case. So say these,
such as  Zachary  and  Elizabet  were eminent persons▪ master-pieces,
above the common size: objects of admiration,
rather then imitation. But alas! This mist is not th cke enough
to escape in: all of us under the Gospell are under the
some law which they were, wee are a royall Priesthood tyed
to as str ct a rule as ever they were, of chastity and holines. 
 I doubt not  Right Honourable) if the question might bee
decided by your voice but you are of this minde; and desire
to be of the same practice Now yet why I devote this Treatise
to your name, many may wonder, as deeming many other
subjects more worthy and proper to present your Lordship
withall. But (my good Lord) such is the estate of fra le
flesh in this vaile or misery that there is no condition of l fe,
whether Ministery, Magistracy, single or maried state wherin
counsell may not doe well for the rectifying of such errors
as through humane infirmity breake into all. Each state
hath his severall temptations, and a well ordered course in
marriage (as long experience of a double marriage can
te ch you) is no easie Theme.  gaine that sweet and mutuall
accord which God hath vouchsafed twixt your Honour
and your worthy Consort, may serve to turne my Ded cation
into a Gratulation. .  And indeed, though the Booke be much
under the value of such a personage as your selfe (a m n not
onely of Noble descent but of great and deserving acts both
for our Church and Commonwealth both formerly and of
late) yet I presume, Act. 24. 2.  that if a draught of muddy w ter presented
in the crowne of a hat, Nunquam bibi su vio em, &c.  was so welcome to a potent
 
Monarch: then doubtlesse your honourable spirit will not reject
a Schollers Mite, offered with as deepe respect unto you,
as that was: you will not despise small things, since there
may be a blessing therein. Scal. de arte Poetic.  Not alway in a great thing there
is good, but in a good there is ever great, and that which may
agree with greatnesse, .  as one tells us out of a Greeke Poet.
All helpes shall one day cease, yet every booke of use may
serve as a little walking-staffe to further us in our travell
home. 
 Moreover it may become the best Scholler of us all to
learne that lesson which  Paul, .  and from him my Booke urgeth;
 The time is short  (wrapt and folded up, 1 Cor. 7. 29, 30 Eccles. 3. 1. &c. 5.  as the Text
is)  Let them that possesse, be as if they possessed not,
such as weepe, as if they wept not, such as rejoyce, as if
they rejoyced not, such as marry, as if they married not,
such as use the world, as if not using it: for the fashion of
it passeth away. Matth. 22. 30.  A time for all things, and so a time for
the married to embrace, and a time to bee far from embracing.
Seeke therefore that place where all these relations
shall cease, (for so I thinke, though some thinke otherwise:)
where there shall be no marrying, nor giving in marriage,
for the Spouse shall be wholy spirituall, like her husband, at
least like the Angels of God. In which desire I rest, craving
a blessing from heaven upon your Honour, your vertuous and
Noble Lady, and posterity: as also upon the perusall of this
your Booke: and so humbly take my leave, resting 
 At your Honours command
in the LORD,
DANIEL ROGERS. 

