
 
 
 To my very loving and much honoured friend and neighbour, M r . JOHN BATHURST Doctour of Physick in  London,  be the gracious accomplishment of the promise, which Godlinesse hath, of the life that now is, 1 Tim. 4.8.  and of that which is to come. 
 T He eternall God (blessed for ever) saying: Ier. 8.22. 
 Is there no Balme in Gilead? Is there no Physician there? Why then is not the health of the daughter of my people recovered?  signifieth thereby, that as there is salve for corporall infirmitie; so is there likewise for spirituall maladie. And therefore He that
 hath Mal. 4.2.   healing in His wings,  having pronounced, Mat. 9.12.   ,  The sick have need of a Physician;  hath taught therein, That Isa. 55.2,
3.  endeavour should be for health in soule,  Ut sit mens 2 Tim. 1.7.   sana in corpore sano.  Also like as the Sentence saith concerning what is bodily, Sir. 38.4.   ,
 The Lord hath created medicines out of the earth, and he that is wise will not abhorre them;  so hath Hee out of his infinite wisdome brought forth his most holy word; and whatsoever
  his Servants publish for to further spirituall welfare, and being the Prov. 1.8.  true doctrine of the sacred Scripture, it should not be 1 Thess. 5.20, 21.  despised, but Acts.
17.11.  taken into due consideration. It is a Saying among the Jewes,
   A man learneth not so much of his own self, as he learneth of another.  One Buxtorfius Lexico Chaldaico Rabbinico ad radicem
  expresseth it,  Non tantum valet studium privatum, quam id quod cum alio quis habet commune.  The Almighty Creatour doth so 1 Cor. 12.8, 9, 10, 11, 25.  powre out of his Spirit upon the Mysticall body of his Sonne (to Whom be honour and glory everlastingly) as that one member may make use of another, according to his holy ordinance. Moreover, whereas the wise mans Exhortation is, Sir. 38.1.   ,  Honour the Physician;  and having my selfe consulted with you my much beloved neighbour and Physician for bodily infirmities, and by Gods blessing finding much helpe and comfort from you; in mutuall love and thankefulnesse I offer unto you these Spirituall counsels and soule-salves, praying that He, who is the true Tree of life, Whose  leaves are for the Rev. 22.2.   healing of the Nations,  may universally blesse them to you, yours, and all the Gal. 6.16.  Israel of God. And although some have (as the Apostle relateth) Acts. 28.27.  refused to be healed; yet the Heavenly Ezek. 2.7.  command was,  Thou shalt speake my words unto them, whether they will heare, or whether they will forbeare.  Also howsoever unto them, which Phil. 3.19. Luke. 12.20, 21. 2 Tim.
3.4.  minde and esteeme most the earthly things, the meditating and observing of such matters, as are in this Treatise following declared by the Word of the Lord to bee Christian duties, may seeme Job. 2 .14, 15 Mal. 3.14.  unnecessary; yet unto those that will search all the places of Scripture quoted therein, to know more and more the Eph.
5 17. Rom. 12.2.  will of God for to doe Mat. 6.10. Ps.
40.8.  it, there will Joh. 7.17. and 8.31, 32.  appeare, that the very true 2 Tim. 3, 5. 
  Power of Godlinesse is herein some manner testified. And whereas the mysteries of the Gospel of Jesus Christ are more and more manifested, (praise be given to  the high and loftie Isa. 57.15.   One which inhabiteth eternity, whose Name is holy ) there is hope that the greatest measure of Isa. 30.26. Rom. 11.12, 15, 26.  light therein, foretold in the Writings of the Prophets and Apostles to be given by God in the last Time, shall shortly be enjoyed; Nazianzenus oratione in laudem Cypriani habita. 
 ,  The Divine Wisdome knoweth, long afore to lay the foundations of great matters, and to procure contraries through the contraries, that It be also had in the more admiration. 
 From my lodging in the  Old-Baily. 
 Yours ever respectively, E. R. 

