
 
 
 TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE, ROBERT, Earl of VVarwick, Baron of Leez, &c.  My Noble Lord, and free Patron. 
 MY LORD, 
 R ENEWED heart is a very Heaven in our little world, and Faith is the onely Sun in that
  Heaven. The sinner never comes to be precious, till he comes to be pious; and the value of that piety still advanceth, according to the quantity of true faith, as the Ring is the more considerable with the Diamond. I cannot conceive of a more compendious way for any Christians full and constant revenues, then this, To get faith, and stil to use it: The summe or product of which would be this, Grace
  and Glory, Heaven and Earth are ours. 
 Satan well knowes what a serviceable channell Faith is for all our traffique, either for our ship to lanch out into duties, or for Gods ship to come laden in to us with mercies: & therefore there is no Grace which hee batters, and conflicts so with, as with faith: If we weaken or shake foundations, this hath a spreading influence into the whole building: A
  Christians faith cannot be wronged, but presently all the spirituall frame becomes sensible of wrong and losse. 
 In my weak judgement, it were a great prudence to secure that, which being secured, now secures all. Nothing grows weake, where faith growes strong. My Lord, This poore Treatise which I presume to front with your name, is like  Aaron  and  Hur,  who staid up the hands of  Moses;  So
  doth this Treatise indeavour to stay the hand of faith in a weak Beleever, who hath an ample estate on the shore and at land; but those waves of doubtings (when he is thrusting in) too often make him to fall back and stagger: Whence followes this great unhappinesse, That whereas his faith might have served in many precious comforts, it is (almost a whole life) imployed onely to answer
  fears and doubts. I humbly present the subsequent Work to your Lordships personal use, and publique patronage. Be pleased (at your leasure) to peruse it, and regard it as the first cognizance of my thankfulnesse to your Honour, for the Living which you did so freely and lovingly confer upon me, wherein I shall desire faithfully to serve your Lord and mine. 
 Now the Almighty God, and blessed Father,
  abundantly inrich your noble heart with all saving graces, and continue you long to be an instrument of much glory to himselfe, comfort to his Church, and good to our Commonwealth. 
 Your Honours perpetually obliged, Obadiah Sedgwick. 

