
 
 
 To my very good Lord My Lord  R. B. E. 
 My Lord, 
 I  Was never so proud, as to think I could write any thing that might abide the test of your judicious eye; what I now send, appeales to your Candor, intreating you to lay aside the person
 
of a Iudge, for that of a Friend. It is at best but a Pamphlet, whether you consider its bulke, or worth. The result of a few pensive houres spent in recollecting what the memory had registred from publike observance, or private reading, in a Theme so sadly copious as this is. If it be not impertinent to tell you what hinted to this trifle, it
 
was this; Having had opportunity to looke abroad into the world, I tooke some notice of the Contrastos of the Italian Princes; I remark'd the  Spaniards  griping  Portugal ; his grounds for the challenge of that Kingdome, & his way of managing those grounds; I lookt upon his method of propagating Christianity in the West: (where one
 
saies the Indian is bound to be religious and poore upon pain of death.) Moreover, I observed with what Artifice the Pope moderated in the European quarrels, and with what devices he twisted the Gops ll, and the Advantage of the Chaire toge hir; and in all the struglings and disputes, that have of late years befalne this corner of
 
the: World, I found  hat although the p letence was, fiue and spirituall, yet the ultimate end, and  sedpe, was gold, and greatnesse, and secular glory. 
 But (my Lord) to come nearer, when I saw Kingdomes tottering, one Nation beeding against another, yea, one piece of a Nation justling the other, and split into so many parties, and
 
petty enmities: and each of these quoting Bible to palliate his mad, and exorbitant opinions; I sigh'd, and it grieved mee to see popular easinesse, and well-meaning abus'd by Ambitious self-seeking men; for there is a Generation that is born to bee the plague, and disquiet, and scourge of the Age it lives in; that gladly sacrifice the publike peace to
 
private interest; and when they see all fired, with joy warme their hands at those unhappy flames, which themselves kindle, tuning their merry Harps; when others are weeping over a kingdomes funerall. 
 But above all, it pierced my heart to see the Clergy in such an high degree accessory to the civill distempers, and contentions
 
that have every where shak'd the Foundations of Church and State; so that (as a Catholike noted) there hath been no floud of misery, but did spring from, or at least was much swel'd by their Holy-water. I searched Evangelicall Records, and there was nothing but milde and soft Doctrines, I inquired into the breathings of
 
the Spirit, and they were pacificatory; I wondered from what Precedents and Scripture incouragements these men deduc'd their practises; and at last was forced to conclude, that they were only pretended Chaplaines to the Prince of Peace; Those Torches that should have been for saving Light, were degenerated into firebrands; Those Trumpets
 
that should have sounded retreats to popular furies, knew no other musicke but Martiall All-armes. 
 I have endeavoured in the sequell to represent to you the Arts of Ambition by giving you the picture of a person over covetous of glory, the peice is course, but yet like; drawne onely in water colours, which some of greater Leisure and
 
Abilities may possibly hereafter lay in oyle. 
 You know that the desires of man are vast as his thoughts, boundless as the Ocean,  , A bored tub is not more insatiate. Tis pity that greatnesse should at any time be out of the Rode of goodnesse; and I would sometimes, if I durst, with
 
 Socrates,  curse him that first separated profitable and honest▪  
 It does to me a little relish of Paradox, that where ever I come,  Machiavell  is verbally curs'd and damn'd, and yet practically imbraced and asserted; for there is no Kingdome but hath a Race of men that are ingenious at the perill of the publike; so that as one said of  Galba  in respect
 
of his crooked body:  Ingenium Galbae malè habitat ; so may I say of these in regard of their crooked use; That wit could not have chosen a worse mansion, then where it is viriated, and made a Pander to wickednesse. 
 If you aske mee what I mean to trouble the world, that is already under such a glut of Books? You may easily perceive
 
that I consulted not at all with advantaging my name, or wooing publike esteeme by what I now write; I knew there was much of naked truth in it, and though it might possibly be of some caution to prevent the insinuation of pious frauds, and Religious fallacies into my native Country: If any plaine-hearted, honest man shall cast away
 
an houre in perusing it, he may perhaps finde something in it resembling his owne thoughts, and not altogether strange to his owne experience. It is not the least of our misfortunes, that sins and vices are cost times endear'd to us by false Titles and Complements: being couzened with a specious name, though much incoherent to
 
the thing we ascribe it: or el e, omi ing the vice which is the maine, it intimates onely the  e i e which is the By   As for example, we call an ambitious man  , a person of notable aime and high enterprize whereas in truth, signifies, an indirect affectour of Grandeur: And I finde that by incautelous intertainment of these
 
Phrases, our judgments are often brib'd to misapprehensions, & we seduced to bad actions. I have endeavoured in the ensuing discourse to wipe off the paint and fucu : that so things may appeare in their true complex o , unadulterated with the slights and subtilties of Deluders. 
 My Lord, That your Lordship may be one of those which
 
the darke Poet calls
 , that the youth of your Honours may be renewed to you, that your happines may be acquainted with no other season but a spring, is the earnest vote 
 Of your bounden SERVANT. 

