
 
 
 TO THE WORTHILY HONORED, THE RELIGIOVS and vertuous Lady, the Lady ANNE YELVERTON, Wife to the right Worshipfull, Sir CHRISTOPHER YELVERTON of Easton Maudet, in the County of Northampton, Knight, Grace and Peace. 
 T HE whole counsell of God concerning mans salvation, is comprised by the Apostle in these two, Acts 20.21 cúm 27.  Repentance towards God, and Faith towards our Lord Iesus Christ. The whole duty of man is contained in  Davids  charge to  Solomon  his son, 1 Chron. 28.9.   Know thou the God of thy Fathers, and serve him with a perfect heart and a willing minde.  The whole matter of condemnation is 2 Thess. 1.8.  Ignorance
 of God, and disobedience to the Gospell of our Lord Iesus Christ. This last is the naturall condition of all mankinde, Titus 3.3.  wee were foolish and disobedient, deceived, serving divers lusts, &c. He that thinkes himselfe the wisest, is Job. 11.12 Acuti ad vana hebetes ad aeterua. Amb. hex. l. 5.  borne like the wilde Asse colt (it may bee quick-sighted in vain and earthly things) in matters spirituall, 1 Cor. 2.14.  neither receiving the things of God, nor able to know them, in this point worse then the Divels James 2.19.  for they beleeve and tremble) and like the senselesse stones, or Psal. 49.20.  . Clem. Alex. adm. ad gen.  the beasts that perish. Every man is a childe of disobedience, a servant to divers lusts, stuffed with rebellion against God, in this point Joh. 8.44.  like the Divels, and worse then the senselesse creatures; of which the Psalmist, Psal. 119 91 Non intelligere belluinū est, intellecta non agere, ultra belluina immanitatis rabiem esse videtur. Hil. de Trinit. l. 1.   They are all thy servants;  Therefore the Apostle pronounceth universally concerning all, that they are children of wrath by nature. Ephes. 2 3.  . Clem. ubi supra.  We (the Apostles and beleevers) were children of wrath by nature, as well as others, no lesse then Pagans and unbeleevers. 
 The freeing of men from this estate, is the work of the Spirit, the Spirit of Eph. 1.17.  wisedome and revelation; of wisedome to 1 Cor. 10.11.12.  search the deep things of
 God; of revelation to discover them: the spirit Joh. 16.13.  of truth to lead into all truth; the spirit of holinesse 1 Thess. 5.23.  . Chrys. in Joh. hom. 1.  to sanctifie throughout the whole soule, the whole spirit and body. It is the end of the Scriptures, they were written Psal. 19.7.  to give wisedome to the simple, and to convert the soule: It is the end of the Ministery, which was ordained by Christ Ephes. 4.10.  for the collection and edification of the Church, Act. 26.18.  . Basil. hexa. hom. 1. & in Psal. 1. in initio.  to turne men from darknesse to light, and from Satan to the living God. 
 Contrariwise, to hold men in the estate of Darknesse, and to drowne them in perdition and destruction, through either ignorance or disobedience, or both, is the whole businesse and employment of the Divill, the Prince of darknesse: he alwayes compasseth the earth 1 Pet. 5.8.  like a roaring Lion, seeking whom he may devoure. 
 Madam, it is a wofull spectable to behold, how exceedingly this Prince of darknesse prevailes; how many eyes the 2 Cor. 4.3, 4  God of this world hath blinded, that the glorious light of the Gospell cannot shine unto them; how many Gal. 3.1.  fooles he hath bewitched, that they
 should not obey the truth; how many have Psal. 36.3.  left off both to understand and to do good; most men live Ephes. 2.12.  without God in the world; Some like naturall bruit beasts, Jer. 2.8.  . Chrysost. in Mat. Hom. 2.  neither knowing him, nor asking nor inquiring after him. Others (worse then these) Job. 21.14.  rejecting knowledge, and saying unto God, Depart from us, wee desire not the knowledge of thy wayes, shutting their eyes against the light, stopping their eares against the word, and despising the meanes of knowledge; many miss-led by seduced,  ad Smyrnen.  . Basil.  . Naz. orat. 1.  or willingly seducing guides (beasts in the shape of men, as  Ignatius  tearmes them) when they thinke they know God, are farther from, and harder to bee taught true knowledge, then they that know nothing at all; Many say Tit. 1.6. Ignat. ad Magnesios.  . Clem. Alexan.  they know God, and by their workes deny him, being corrupt and abominable, divorcing (what God requires should bee joyned together) obedience from knowledge, adulterate and false money, that have the imprease of God in their understandings, and the image of the Divel in their hearts; like Toads that have a pretious stone in their beads, and in their whole bodies nothing but poyson. 
 
 The serious and sad consideration of the imminent danger, and infinite multitude of those that know not God, or disobey him, being known, should excite in all that tender the everlasting welfare of their immortall soules, a more then ordinary solicitude of joyning these two together, Repentance to their Faith, Obedience to their Knowledge; which if seene in one (like  Castor  and  Pollux  appearing at once) doe promise a prosperous navigation; if they bee separated each from other, they menace a ship-wracke. They that know God and disobey him, are like the Gentiles, Rom. 1.28.  who when they knew him, did not worship him as God, but captivated the truth under unrighteousnesse. They that thinke to serve him, and know him not, are liable to the Samaritans condemnation, Joh. 4.22.  Yee worship yee know not what: and equally guilty with the superstitious Athenians Acts 17.23  who erected an altar to the unknowne God. Both these misse salvation, the one for want of knowledge, the other for want of obedience: both these fall into the pit; the one blind-fold and not seeing it, the other seeing it, and desperately leaping into it. 
 
 If wee desire to attaine salvation, . In Gen. hom. 13.  and escape hell (saith  Chrysostome ) we must bee adorned both with the knowledge of the orthodox faith, and the integrity of a holy life. Happy is hee that findeth wisedome Prov. 3.13.  saith  Solomon,  and Job 28.2 S.   Iob  describeth that wisedome: The feare of the Lord that is wisedome, and to depart from evill, is understanding. Blessed are your eyes, for they see, Mat. 13.16.  saith our Saviour Christ, and yet not unlesse yee see to do. Joh. 13.17.  If yee know these things, happy are yee if yee do them. 
 These graces must be joyned together, because severed they bee not graces. The grace of knowledge consists not in the naked and perfunctorie theorie and apprehension of divine truths, but in conformity to them. A man knowes no more truly, then hee puts in practise. 1 Joh. 2.4. Cognoscere non in solâ, & perfunctoriâ scientiâ est, sed in eorum operatione quae oporteat fieri. Amb. de Parad. c 6. Non est vera scientia boni, nisi ad hoc comprehendatur ut agatur. Prosp. Nihil estaliud scientia nostra quam culpa, qui ad hoc tantum modo leg emnovimus, ut majore offensione peccemus. Salv.  Hee that saith, I know God, and keepeth not his commandements, is a lyer, and the truth is not in him; if a man know God, and disobey him, his knowledge is his fault. Obedience without knowledge, is not obedience, but will-worship and superstition; as faith without workes is a dead faith: so workes without faith, are dead
 workes; the prayers of ignorant persons, . Chrysost. in Gen. hom. 2.  in their owne conceits good prayers, are not good, because the sacrifice of Eceles. 5.  fools; their meanings, which they call good, are not good Pro. 19.  without knowledge the heart is not good, &c Light is in the second (as in the first creation) the first worke. 2 Pet. 1.3.  All things that appertain to life and godlinesse, are given us through knowledge: therefore without knowledge there cannot bee either life or godlinesse, or any thing that belongs to them. 
 The image of God (in which wee were at first created, unto which we must bee renewed) consists chiefly in knowledge and holinesse, not in one of these, but in both. The glorious Angels (who are proposed to us as patternes) are understandingly obedient; Psal. 103.20  they do his commandements, hearkening to the voice of his word: If wee know God and serve him we are like the Angels, . Ignat. ad Ephes.  like our patternes, perfect pleasing to God: if either of these bee wanting, the danger is great, the blinde and the lame equally an abhomination. 
 God hath given to man an understanding and a will, an eye to see, and a band to execute; and
 having given both, . Chrysost. in Mat. hom. 2.  he requires both, one of these parts will not serve his turne: Hee hath given us a minde to know him, 1 Joh. 5.20.  saith the Apostle: Hee hath made us to understand more then the beasts, saith  Elthu  in Job. 35.11.   Iob,  that wee might know him, which the beasts cannot doe; It is an injury to God, Non sufficit Deo intellectus nisi fiat in amore ejus voluntas, imo nec haec duo sufficiunt nisi & memoria, &c. Amb. de dign. hum. c. 2.  and a debasing of our understanding, to lay out those intellectuals which God hath bestowed on us for himselfe, on earthly and other things, and to yeeld him a bruitish (because a blinde) obedience: He hath given us will and affections, and a body to love him, to feare him, to delight in him, to serve him, &c. It is no lesse injury and unthankefulnesse to God, to withdraw these from him, . In Joh. hom. 6.  and bestow them on our lusts, on sinne, on Satan, on the world, on the creatures, on vaine things, by which, for which they were not made. I conclude, with  Chrysostome,  Let us give all diligence that wee may obtaine a cleare understanding of the true faith, and adde unto that a holy life, and a shining conversation. 
 Amongst all those poynts which are objected to our knowledge, there is none more generally
 necessary and usefull, then this of God and Christ, of God in Christ: This is the first principle and foundation of faith and obedience: Heb. 11.6.  Hee that commeth unto God, must beleeve that he is, and that hee is a rewarder of them that diligently seeke him, saith the Apostle: without this knowledge no grace can bee obtained, no salvation can be hoped for: upon this depends faith: (for Psal. 9.10.  they onely that know his Name will trust in him: that which ignorant persons mistakingly call faith, is mere presumption) and patience (for Heb. 10.32.  they only that are illuminated, can endure the fight of great afflictions, others may be senselesse, bruitish, stupid, these only truly patient:) and all obedience (for Psal. 119.34.  they onely can keep the commandements, to whom he hath given understanding, others as they desire not the knowledge of his wayes, so they say in their hearts Job. 21.14.15.  What is the Almighty that we should serve him? And what profit should we have if we pray unto him? or as Exod. 5.3.   Pharaoh,  who is the Lord that I should obey his voyce?) upon the knowledge of God in Christ dependeth interest in mercy, and salvation; Psal. 36.10.  God will draw forth his loving
 kindnesse to them that know him; they that know him not, are as farre Ose 27.11.  from finding favour as from knowledge, God hath bound it with an oath, Psal. 95.10.11.  That the people that have not knowne his wayes, shall not enter into his rest. Notable is that speech of holy  Ignatius: . Ep. ad Smyrnen.  If a man believe not that Christ is incarnate, if hee confesse not his crosse, his passion, his bloud which he powred forth for the salvation of the world, (and this be cannot doe without knowledge) he cannot obtaine everlasting life; though a King, though a Priest, though a Ruler, though a private person, though a Master, though a servant, though a man, though a woman; let him that receiveth, receive it, let him that heareth, heare it. The ground of this speech is that of our Saviour Christ. 1 Joh. 17.3.  . Chrys. in Joh.  This is life eternall, to know thee the onely true God, and him whom thou hast sent Iesus Christ: because this knowledge of God is thus usefull, and of this absolute necessity to salvation. It ought to be the businesse and maine study of every one that desires
 grace, or glory, to search after him, and that he may finde him, to search after him first, where he may bee found, and secondly, as he will be sought. 
 First, God may be found in his word, there is no point in which nature is more blinde, from which it is more averse, then this of God, and Christ; God is great, and we know him not saith  Elihu,  this Well is deep, and we have nothing of our owne to draw with. There are manifest impressions of God stamped upon the creature: The invisible thinges of him from the creation of the world are clearely seene, being understood by the thinges that are made, even his eternall power, and Godhead; Not onely the Heavens, and the firmament, his glorious, and magnificent workemanship, declare his glory, but the beasts, the foules, the earth, the fishes, the least, the most contemptible of his creatures, shew forth his handy worke, yet the wisest of men by these know not God, by these (which is worse) were taken off from God, from seekeing him, from serving
 him, from seeking him while they imployed their understandings wholly in the search of the secrets of nature, and spared no time to enquire after the God of nature, from serving him, whilest they doted upon, and deified the creature, worshipping the Sunne, the Moone, the Hoast of heaven; nay, foure footed beasts, & creeping things, and plants, and hearbs in stead of God But after that in the wisedome of God the world by wisedome knew not God, . Athan. cont. Gentes,  . Clem. Alex. ad gentes adm. Quae Deus occulta eum voluit non sunt scrutanda, quae autem manifesta fecit non sunt neganda ne in illis illicitè curiosi in istis damnabiliter inveniamur ingrati. Prosp. de vocat. gentes.  it pleased God by the foolishnesse of preaching, to save them that beleeve; It hath pleased God to discover himselfe (so far forth as we are able, and it is needfull to salvation to know him) in his holy word: in this God may be found, in this God must be sought. This is that light in which, & by which we may behold & gaze upon God; within this we must contain our inquiry after him, that we wax not vaine in our empty speculations, and bee precipitated into errours: as farre as this we must extend our inquiry after him, lest wee bee found guilty of wilfull ignorance, and convict of Atheisme. He that desires to finde God, must to the Law and to the Testimonies, must search the Scriptures, they testifie
 of him; As the sunne discovers himselfe by his owne beames, and the fire by his owne light; so God reveales himselfe by his owne word; a light more bright then the sunne in his glory, discovering God, and opening our blinde eies that we may see him. 
 Secondly, he must seeke him as he will bee sought, and that in these particulers; First, with diligence of endeavour, consisting in the dailinesse and serious earnestnesse of inquiry; this mystery is great, mans capacity is slow, it is constant labour that must raise up slow capacities, to great mysteries:  Ioshua  had a charge to meditate in the booke of the law day, and night; . Chrys. in Joh. hom. 53.  the Bereans had a commendation for doing it, and the Eunuch a reward, and we a promise if we doe it. If thou incline thine eare to wisedome, and apply thy heart to understanding, if thou criest after knowledge, and liftest up thy voice for understanding, if thou seekest her as silver, and searchest for her as for hid treasures, then shalt thou understand the feare of the Lord, and find the knowledge of God. This is that which our Saviour requires in
 his command. . Athan. hom. 2.  Search the Scriptures; for what is it to search but carefully and diligently to inquire out something that is hidden, the daily, and serious reading, and meditation of the w rd, make the language of the holy Ghost familiar to us, and the eye of the soule quicke sighted. 
 Secondly, Qui vindemiam colligit vasa prius mundare consuevit quibus vinum. infunditur—Emunda oculos mentis—ne qua festuca peccati ac em tui perstringat ingenii, Ambr. Hex. lib. 4.  . Clem. Alex. Chrys. in Joh hom. 1.  with a washed and a pure conscience; this is the Apostle Saint  Iames  his councell. Lay aside all filthinesse and superfluity of naughtinesse; with him agrees  S. Peter.  Lay aside all malice, and all guile, &c. as new borne babes desire the sincere milke of the Word: No man will powre pretious liquors into uncleane vessels, nor new wine into old bottles: God will not infuse saving knowledge into sensuall hearts, but the secret of the Lord is with them that feare him, and he will teach them his covenant; they that desire to see God, and know him as he is, must prepare themselves with preparations befitting God, for an unsanctified eye cannot see him as hee should be seen, nor know him as he should be knowne. 
 Thirdly, with a teachable, and a tractable heart, ready to entertaine that light which shineth into it, and imbrace and submit unto that truth
 which God reveales concerning himselfe, . Basil in Psal. 115.  without consulting with flesh and blood: This is a necessary condition; foolish man that cannot perfectly comprehend the nature of the smallest, of the ba¦sest creature, is too ready to measure God by his bruitish understanding: there is a generation that make reason (which they tear me right) the judge of faith, and boggle at, Concedamus cognitionē sui Deo, dictisque ejus p â veneratione famulemur: Idoneus enim sibi testis est, qui nisi per se cognitus non est. Hil. de Trin. lib. 1.  or plainely deny those mysteries which reason cannot reach to, and others that professe not so much to the world, secretly harbour the same principle in their hearts, & manifest it in their disputes: they that wil know God, must lay aside carnall reasonings, and bring with them faith to beleeve what God hath revealed concerning himself, though they apprehend it not. God knowes himself best, and is a sufficient witnesse to himself, no words can describe him, Hoc mirabilis magis Dei virtus est quod intelligi ab homine magnitudo justitiae non potest ut quantum ad imbecillitatem humanam pertinet pene injustitie especiem magnitudo justitiae habere videatur.  no minde can conceive him as be is, if they could he should not be infinite, & so not God. In this (saith  Salvian ) is the excellencie of God more admirable, because man cannot understand his justice, (say the same of all his attributes, man cannot understand his wisedome, power, mercy, &c.) but the greatnesse of his justice seemes to man to be in a
 manner injustice; . Chrys. in Heb. hom. 2.  . Just. Martyr cum Tryphone.  It should bee sufficient to perswade us to beleeve, that God hath said it: it is one part of that glory which we must yeeld to God, and comfort that we must affoord to our selves, to acknowledge that wee serve such a God as infinitely exceeds all that wee can speak or thinke. 
 Fourthly, with prayerfull hearts; The same spirit by whom the Scriptures were inspired, is the expositer of the Scriptures: There is a veile over every mans heart naturally, when hee reads the word; where this Spirit is, the veile is done away, no man can see the things of God, but hee to whom God reveales them, and bee reveales them to them that ask him. But of this in the Treatise. 
 Lastly, he must make use of the Ministers of God, of their lippes and labour: The Priests lippes should preserve knowledge, and they should enquire the Law at his mouth. The Eunuch read the word, but understood it not, God sent  Philip  to instruct him:  Cornelius  fasted and prayed, but understood not; the Angell warnes him to send for  Peter,  and heare words of him. This was done for our instruction, to teach us to make use of those Pastors which God raiseth up according to his
 owne heart, to teach us in wisedome and understanding. 
 Madam, it is the scope of this Treatise to reveal God, and shew what use should be made of this knowledge. It was pēned by an able minister of the Gospel, in his time a burning & shining light, eminent above others for his learning and for his labours. Divers other books of this subject have out run this into the world (as  Ahimaz  did  Cushi ) I doubt not but this that comes after them, will deliver the message as fully as any that went before it: the Author in it hath clearly opened dark points, hath brought downe high points to low capacities, hath unfolded intricate questions, cut in sunder the sinewes of many heresies made profitable applications of all points herein discussed: I confesse it comes not forth so gorgeously attired as some others; it is an orphane, the wombe that bred it had not strength to bring it forth: it wants the enticing words of mans wisedome, the Apostle wated them, & gloried in it, . In Joh. hom. 1.  he was rude in speech but not in knowledge, he did discover (as  Chrysostome  said of Saint  Iohn ) the naked truth with a naked head, he was a preacher and not an
 Orator, Devita contemplat. lib. 1 cap. 23.24.  he perswaded God, and not man, and therefore did (what  Prosper  counsels all Preachers to do) lay aside Rhetoricall paintings much fitter to obscure plaine matters, then illustrate dark ones; Non tam otiosorum auribus pl ceant, quam aegrotorum mentibus prosunt. Salvi.  it is their duty not to rub itching ears with froathy eloquence, but to cure sicke hearts with sound doctrine. This was the purpose of the Author in this treatise, which how farre bee hath attained, I leave it to others to judge: the nurse is many times as fond of the infant she suckles, as is the mother that brought it into the world: my judgement therefore may be partiall. 
 Madam, this booke as it is, I present to your Ladiship, it is not any personall ingagement hath inforced me to it, (though Iowe you my selfe) but your goodnesse which I acknowledge and desire to helpe. . Just. Martyr cum Triphone.  Madam, it is a certain truth, that God hath bestowed on women as well as men, a reasonable soule, and hath given to them a capacity of performing all workes commendable and vertuous: hee implanted in them his own image; this they have lost (the woman was first in the transgression) & are in as a wofull a condition naturally as man, and must be saved out of it by the same means, and
 in the same method a man is saved, by repentance towards God, and faith towards Christ, the joyning of knowledge and obedience concernes them. . Chrys. in Joh.  Madam, I have heard your Ladiship plead for these things, and know in part your pains and your progresse in them: I know a book of this subject will not be unacceptable, will not bee neglected by your Ladiship. Ministers (like husbandmen) sow their seed with most readinesse where they expect the greatest increase. Madam, your growth and increase in those graces which are already eminent in your Ladiship, is the thing I desire, and this book, with Gods blessing on it, may procure. The prayer of the Apostle for the Colossians, shall bee mine for your Ladiship, that you may bee filled with the knowledge of Gods will in all wisedome and spirituall understanding, that you might walke worthy of the Lord unto all well-pleasing, being fruitfull in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. 
 Your Ladiships to be commanded in Christ, JAMES CRANFORD. 

