
 
 To the Right Honourable the LORDS and COMMONS Assembled in High COURT of  Parliament. 
 Right HONOURABLE,  &c. 
 T He Ensuing Treatise which I am bold to present to Your wisedomes view, containes principall politicall reasons grounded upon the Lawes of this Kingdom, for the removing of the present Hierarchie, and planting of a Governement by Pastors and Elders. The appellation of Lay Elders hath beene very displeasing to many; whereas the Elder intended to be planted, is not lay, but in regard of the service (wherein hee is to bee imployed) Ecclesiasticall. The Author was an elaborate Student in the civill Law, and a professor of it. He was esteemed
  learned by the best of that profession, as also by Divines and common Lawyers, learned Sir  Edward Cook,  late Chiefe Justice of the Kings Bench, Sir  Christopher Yelverton,  late Judge of the Common Pleas, Sir  Henry Finch,  late the Kings Serjeant at Law, and others have given testimony of him. The Treatise is an answer to diverse passages in a Book written by D.  Whitgift,  late Archb. of  Canterbury,  intituled An admonition to the  Parliament.  The Author (as I doubt not but will appeare to your Wisedomes) hath written with the spirit of meekenesse and humility, submitting all to the judgement of an High Court of  Parliament,  hee disputes with the Great Bishop in a Scholasticall way, without one syllable of reviling, or bitter language, which he ever detested. Hee discovers the foundation of the Hierarchie to be totally illegall, and to bee abolished by the abolition of the Papall Canon Law, which appeares to be abolished by the statute of 25. of  Henry  8.  cap.  9. The truth whereof (being discovered by the Authors means to the said learned Judge Sir  Edward Cooke,)  hee did most ingenuously acknowledge, and did avow he never understood the statute so well before, yet affirmed he thought he had read the said statute an hundred times. May it please you in your wisedomes to commend the Treatise to bee viewed by the learned Gent. of the long Robe,
  whose awfull judgments I shall ever honour. Most true it is (I dare averre) there is little written in this Kingdome tending to the removall of the  Episcopacie,  from Legall and Politicall arguments, but the Author hath the arrowes in his quiver, I say not that others have borrowed light from his Candle. Right Honourable and Right worthy, I shall humbly take further boldnes (humbly presuming upon your Honourable favours) if this poore model find acceptance in your sight, to present you with a new impression of an abstract written in time of famous Queene  Elizabeth,  (a Book well knowne to learned King  Iames)  by the same Author, whose memory, I am bound by nature to Honour. Give mee leave onely now to make knowne unto you the Title and severall Treatises contained in it. It is intituled, An abstract of certaine Laws, Canons and Constitutions Synodall and Provinciall in force within the Queenes dominions, and for the most part unknowne to the subject. It containeth these principall Treatises. 1. That a learned Ministery is commanded by Law. 2. That Pluralities are forbidden by Law. 3. That it is unlawfull to make a Minister without a title. 4. That it is unlawfull for a Clerk to have civill authority. This abstract was seemingly answered by the rayling stile of a then Doctor  Cozens,  but by a further incounter,
  and the counterpoyson (yet extant) written by the same Author, he departed the Field with Honour, such was the opinion of many learned, among others of the foresaid, Reverend Judge, Sir  Henry Yelverton.  This treatise was never questioned nor quarreld, for ought I ever heard: Yet was the Author well knowne to many of the Bishops. You may happily in your Wisdomes conceive some things might have beene omitted, as not wholly incident to the time, and some abbreviated in regard of the shortnesse of your time, and of the high affaires now in hand. But may it please you, being about so to doe, I found the light must have bin much Eclipsed, and the truth obscured. I am over bold, most humbly to commend the defence of what he writes, grounded upon the laws of the Kingdome, to your most Honourable protection. It shall be enough for me to attend among the meanest of your servants, having heretofore had the happinesse to have bin a member (though unworthy) of the Honourable House of Commons. 
 Presenting your honours and your grave wisdomes with my heartiest prayers and humblest service, In most humble manner, I intreate your pardon of and for 

