
 
 
 TO The Right Honourable, RALPH, Lord  HOPTON,  Baron of STRATTON:  Grace, and Peace, from the Father, Prince, and Spirit of Peace.  Amen. 
 Right Honourable, 
 T He infallible mouth of the  Arch Doctor  of all truth hath told us, that  every Scribe which is taught unto the kingdome of heaven, is like unto a housholder, which bringeth forth out of his Treasure things both new and old.  Mat. 13.52. 
 
  Answerable hereunto, there hath beene in former ages of the  Church  and are also now in these latter times, many able and  Orthodox Divines,  whose hearty desire for the good of others, have stirred them up to write for the advancement of  true Religion,  and the benefit of the  Church  of  Christ,  that through  Gods  blessing upon their writings, they might win many soules unto  God:  whereby being dead themselves, they might still speake to those that are alive; that so their holy DOCTRINE might be transmitted, and propagated unto posterity after them. 
 Of which number my selfe being one, (although the meanest of all the rest) labouring in the same  Vineyard,  have thought it necessary to gather one handfull of  Grapes,  and carry them to the  Presse,  thereby to increase the water of  life,  wherewith to refresh the  Church  of  Christ  when she is either sick, or sorrowfull. 
 The which as the poor widdowes  Mite  will adde somewhat to the  Churches
 treasury;  according to that  Talent.  which the  Lord  hath lent me. 
 And in this Age, there was never greater cause for  Spirituall Physitians,  to provide restoring comfortable  Cordialls,  for sick, cast downe, and dejected  soules,  then in these present deplorable and calamitous dayes. 
 Naturall experiment tacitly tels us, that the sad expression of woefull calamity, can never be welcome to a truly Christian, and sympathizing heart. 
 This  Ioab  the  Generall  of  King Davids  hoast knew right well, and therefore he would not suffer  Ahimaaz  whom he loved, to carry tydings to  King David  of  Absaloms  death. 2  Sam.  18.20. 
 The  Sword  of the late, domestick, unnaturall, and intestine  Wars,  hath eaten up many thousands of our  English Nation,  yea, hath swiftly snatched them away, even as the  Oxe  licketh up the grasse: so great have  Rubens divisions  beene in our  Land. 
 My self also having borne  a great
 share  thereof, almost as bitter as  death  it self: For divers of us of the  Tribe  of  Levi,  were imprisoned in one roome in the  Metropolis  of this Kingdome, in which Prison they all ended their dayes: And about one month after all their  deaths,  my selfe onely (and that by way of exchange) escaped  alive;  like one of  Jobs  messengers, to declare somewhat VIVA VOCE, concerning those that are in their graves. 
 And as an Aggravation to my Affliction, I have beene a long time (and still remaine) under  Sequestration,  being deprived both of  Living  and  Goods,  whereby my selfe and family are (at this present) destitute of the means of subsistence. 
 So that, the  premises  maturely and seriously considered, I thought it therefore my duty both unto  God  my heavenly Father, and also to the  Church  of  England  my Spirituall Mother, in this her present and sad condition, to expresse to the world her wofull calamity,
 together with a  Remedy  for the same. 
 For which cause I doe here humbly present unto your  Honours  this ensuing Treatise, the which may not unfitly be termed A REMEDY FOR THE WARS. Which through  Gods  blessing upon the holy Endeavours, and Religious Practises, of those persons unto whom it shall come, there may be a present surceasing of these bloudy, unnaturall, and intestine  English Wars,  and both  Church  and  Common-wealth,  even speedily and happily enjoy their pristine condition. 
 Many thousands of us  English Natives  (since these troubles arose amongst us) have deeply suffered, and still doe, by a stupendious kind of dispersion in  Opinion  and  Practice;  and yet how few there are who in lowlinesse of  Spirit,  and humblenesse of  heart  truly repenting them of all their wickedness, smite their breasts, saying,  What have I done?  Jer. 8.6. 
 And yet I hope the deep apprehension
 of these present Distractions amongst us, doth exercise, and that not unworthily, the heads of many that are of great Wisdome and Policy, to thinke how this distracted  Church  and  Common-wealth  may againe be re-united. 
 If ever we would have a wel-grounded, firme, and permanent  Peace  in this our  Kingdome,  then must we sincerely performe these three particular  Duties. 
 1. Aversion from  Sin. 
 2. Conversion to  God. 
 3. Humble, hearty and constant  Prayer  unto  God,  to inable us by the power of his grace and blessed Spirit, for the speedy and constant performance of both. 
 At the request and importunity of some who are more able (both in gifts of Nature and Learning) then my self, who having had a sight of this Booke (privately in my Study) before it was fully finished, I was prevailed with to present it to the publike view; and at their instance being resolved so to doe,
 I called to mind your Noble Lordship, (as in duty I am obliged) who so willingly, freely and speedily condescended to my Enlargement by the way of Exchange when I was in Prison; humbly craving the peaceable Passage of this my Booke under the shelter of your  Honourable Patronage,  and  Protection;  being well assured, that your  Honourable  Name, and  Noble  Aspect, casting an approbatious and indulgent eye upon it, have such attractive power in them; as that by vertue thereof, they will set such a  splendid luster  upon this my  weake Worke,  that thereby as by the efficacy of a  Load-stone,  the eyes and hearts of many thousands will be drawne unto it: whereby also it may take the deeper impression in their hearts, for the reformation of their lives, and the conversion of their soules unto  God,  through  Jesus Christ:  the which (through  Gods  blessing upon it) may greatly conduce to the glory of the  God  of  Peace,  and the benefit and comfort of many poore disquieted soules. 
 
  I humbly intreat your Noble Lordships charitable, and candid censure, for my  Super-audacity  in this nature; For through the fervent zeale which I have for the glory of  God,  and hearty desire for the salvation of his childrens souls, wishing also both the present permanent  Peace,  and the speedy continuing  Comfort,  of his distressed Militant  Church,  in this our disquieted, perplexed, and distracted  Kingdome: 
 I have  (in imitation of Saint  Paul  to his  Romans )  somewhat boldly after a sort, written  for the benefit of the English Natives,  as one that putteth them in remembrance, through the grace that is given me of God.  Rom. 15.15. 
 I doe ingenuously and submissively confesse my great and over-boldnesse to Dedicate this weake worke unto your  Honour:  yet I humbly beseech your  Honour  both to pardon this my boldnesse, and to accept the minde of the Offerer; accept also the  Booke  offered, if not for the  Authour  of the  Booke,  yet for the  Authour  of the  Text, 
 and those necessary things contained therein, being pertinent to these present times. 
 And thus fearing to hinder the course of your  Honours  more serious cogitations, in all humility I take my leave: heartily desiring  Almighty God,  that when the last  Period  of your mortall life shall present it self; you may looke  Death  in the face without  Dread;  the  Grave  without  Feare;  the  Lord Jesus  with  Comfort;  and  Jehovah  blessed for ever, with  everlasting joy. 
 Your Honours in all duty to be commanded, John Tarlton. 

