
 
 
 TO THE REVEREND And his much honoured Father, M r   JOHN LEY,  Pastour and Preacher of Gods Word at great  Budworth  in  Cheshire,  and one of the venerable ASSEMBLY. 
 Reverend Sir, 
 N Ow, by a sweet providence, is that happinesse put into my hands, that I have long wished and waited for,  viz  a fit opportunity of telling the world, how highly I honour You, and how deeply I stand ingaged unto You. A most able and absolute Divine (in another
 sense then  Erasmus  tearmed some in his time) I ever took You for, Abselutae eruditionis & pietatis viris. Sic scripsit Theolog  Parisiens b. Voluit autem, alienis ab omni eruditione & pietate, interprete  Melancthone.  since I first came acquainted with You. And how little mistaken I am therein, let Your many elaborate lucubrations say for me; those accurate Annotations upon the  Pentateuch  especially: of which precious piece, and the thriceworthy Authour, I am eftsoons ready to say, Buchol.  as one did once of  Erasmus  and his  Adagies — quis nôsset Erasmum, Chilias aeternum si latuisset opus? 
 Or as another did of  Calvins  Institutions,  Praeter Apostolicas, .  Dugardi mei ingeniosissimum inventum.  M.  Ley  was at that time the first President of  Sion -Colledge. Joseph. Scali.  epist. ad  Eliam Vinet.   post Christi tempora, chartas Huic peperere libro secula nulla parem.  Sure I am, and not a little sensible, that he that here come's after You, shall but  actum agere,  he shall but  facem Soli (Soli, inquam, in Sion) accendere,  he shall but  in nobilissimo theatro seipsum traducere.  Well he may pick up  Praeterita  with  Drusius, 
 or  spicilegium post messem  with  Capellus,  he shall hardly ever get so near You, Val. Max.  as the Latine Orator did the Greek,  Demosthenes Ciceroni praeripuit, ne primus esset Orator, Cicero Demostheni, ne solus. Cant. 6.12.  But whither  (or ere I wist)  hath the just admiration of Your singular worth transported me? My design was not to praise You (for that were, as an Ancient said of  Athanasius, to praise vertue it self ) but to professe my deep indebtednesse unto You, for Your many fatherly favours and reall courtesies done me since mine adoption  Quibus effecisti, ut viverē & morerer ingratus,  as he said to  Augustus, Sen.  de benef. l.  2.  c.  12.  this being the only wrong that ever You did me, that I must live and die unthankfull. These brief Notes passeable (I say not praisable) only for their brevity, do humbly beg Your perusall, and  (sitanti sint)  Your Patronage: and surely may they but obtain Your much-desired
 countenance and comprobation, I shall soon say with the Oratour,  ,  I fear not any mans censure.  Whatever else is wanting in them, a will, I am sure, is not wanting, of laying forth my small talent to the honour of my Master, and the good of my fellow-servants; those of mine own particular charge especially, to whom most of these things have been delivered, and of whom I can truly say, as Reverend M.  Stock  did of his people in  Breadstreet London, M r  Gatak, Abrahams decease.  That he had rather win one of them, then twenty others. Now that I may be fit and able to  fulfill the Ministery that I have received in the Lord, Col. 3.17.   Tim. 4.16.  so as  to save my self and them that hear me,  let Your fatherly benediction, and instant intercession  to the Father of all the fatherhood in heaven and earth, Ephes. 3.15.    Parentela.  be never wanting to 
 Your most affectionately obsequious son and servant,  John Trapp. 
 Welford   this 16. of  Nov.  1647. 

