
 
 
 TO THE INCOMPARABLE, SOVERAIGNE PRINCESSE, HENRIETTA-MARIA OF FRANCE, QVEEN OF GREAT BRITTAINE, FRANCE, AND IRLAND. 
 MADAME 
 I  Presume not novv, to approach to your Maiesties presence, vvith designe to begg your Fauours, (though this, vse to be the case of euery Creature) but to pay your Maiestie a Seruice, and that, a great one, for the many Princely benefitts, vvhich I haue receiued already, from your gratious hand. For heer, I come to offer your Maiestie a meanes, of magnifying your ovvne naturall greatnes, by your
 
avovving, & protecting, and enlargeing the glory of an incomparable Saint,  S. Teresa.  To vvhome, as I haue vvell vnderstood that already, yovv carry an extraordinary deuotion; and not only deuotion to her selfe, but affection also, to the holy Religious vvoemen of her Angelicall Order; vvhereof, the English Nation (vvhich novv enioyes the honour, to be also, yours) hath a Monastery at  Antwerpe,  vvhich needs not, perhaps, be ashamed, to appeare neer any other of the vvhole vvorld, vvhether it be, for their great, & entire contentment in Recollection; their insatiable, yet most delightfull thirst, after Perfection, & Vnion vvith our Blessed Lord; or the euerlasting Feast, of Joy, & Iubily, vvhich they solemnize, both in the harty, & high respects, vvhich they carry to their Reuerend Mother Superiour, and their true, & most tender
 
loue, to one another: so, it vvill not be vnvvorthy, either of your ovvne greatnes, or goodnes, that, vvhen there is question of considering the vertues, & perfections of the  Glorious S. Teresa,  and the celebrating her praises, and the studying her Life, (J meane that Life of hers, vvhich she vvrote, vvith that most holy, & vvise hand of her ovvne, vvhich I heer present) your Maiestie vouchsafe to march at the very head of that vvhole Troope, vvhich may addresse it selfe, to the imitation of her Heroicall actions, and to the admiration of those incomparable Graces, and Fauours, vvhich the God of Heauen, and Earth, thought fitt to infuse, vvith his enamoured hart, and omnipotent hand, into that most happy Soule. For, vvho can euer, be more fitt, to patronize so great a Saint, as she is, then so great a Queen, as your Maiestie;
 
vvho, besides your Birth, and renovvne, vvhereof (to speake after the manner of men) yovv haue so much occasion to bragg, haue also (in order to Heauen) shevved such constancy, in the vvay of Religion, and pietye, as may iustly, (all things considered) giue cause to the rest of your owne most eminent Ranke, at least, to shrinke, if not to blush. For my selfe, to begg your Maiesties pardon, for this apparance of presumption, vvere novv, to acknowledge some such fault, as vvhereof, J acquitted my selfe, before. I vvill therefore, rather by this meanes, hope to obtaine a Suite for this Seruice; yea and that, of the most sauory kind, of all other; & it is, That yovv vvill vouchsafe to imploy the Sacrifice of my vvhole Life, in obedience to any of your Maiesties least commands. God make, & keep your Maiestie, as healthy, & as happy, as this vvorld can
 
tell hovv to vvish; yea, and as the other, can tell hovv to graunt; & I most humbly aske leaue, to doe your Maiestie all Reuerence, at your Royall Feet. 
 Your Maiesties most humble, most obedient, most deuoted, & most obliged Seruant
M. T. 

