
 
 
 TO THE RIGHT WORSHIPFVLL, AND NOBLE BROTHERS, AND HIS WORTHIE, AND MUCH HONOVRED Patrons, Sir  Iohn Mainard  Knight (together with his Religious and vertuous Lady) and  Timothy Middleton  Esquire. 
 H Onourable Patrons,  although there is often no proportion betweene the  Giver  and  Receiver;  yet there should bee betweene the  Giver  and the  Gift. 
 This I speake, that you might please to accept of a small  Gift,  from a meane and poore  Giver,  although you have deserved not  meanely,  but  mightily  of me. If the world admire, that I should have  two Patrons,  and never had but  one living;  they must know, that I neither could, nor would hold two, although by you two, I had two given. And therefore in duty I am bound as well to acknowledge my engagement to you, my  Honourable Patron, Sir Iohn,  although I refused your  Living,  as I am, and doe to you, my  Noble Patron  whose  offer  I willingly embraced. 
 Not onely  dutie, custome,  and  thākfulnes  requires that I should dedicate this  worke  unto your  Worships,  but also  policie,  &  necessity:  for by how much the more unworthy the  Treatise  is, by so
 much the more it craves  worthy Patrös,  to  protect  it; & who more  worthie  then the  Patrons  of the  Author?  The Lord hath abundantly enriched you both, both with temporall blessings, and eminent endowments of learning, and naturall parts, and also with the love and honourable respect of those among whom you live. And therefore seeing the  Republique  is like to receive such benefit from you both, this unpolished, and rough-hewen  Discourse  doth beg your serious view, because therein you may read  Morbum, Medicinam,  and  Medicum,  both the  Maladies,  and  Remedies  of a  Republique,  and who are appointed, and destined by God, both for the preservation of Churches and States, in puritie, prosperitie, and peace, and also for the reforming, and redressing
 of what is amisse. As  Architecture teacheth,  that there should be in  buildings  a  symmetry,  and decent proportion, betweene the  Gate  and  Fabrique:  So  Oratory  telleth, that there should be in  Speeches  some  Analogie,  betweene the  Exordium,  and  Narration.  Wherefore, that I may not put a  large preoemium  before a little  Tractate,  I will draw to an end: but first I must entreat your  Worships  to be pleased to take notice. That  future obligements  doe not disanul & make void  former engagements:  and therefore, although for your  cleare handednesse  in your free and favourable presentations, you deserve mee wholly, and whatsoever I can doe; yet in regard that this  worke  was behight, and dedicated unto another  Worshipfull,  &  worthy friend  the last  Parliament, 
 when it should have come forth, if the sudden dissolution thereof had not stopt it: I have made bold with  you,  and  him,  to joyne  him  with  you  in the  Dedication,  though in severall  Epistles.  Thus with my heartie prayers to God, for the  corporall  &  spirituall health,  and  eternall happinesse  of  you  and  yours,  entreating you to accept of this small  Tractate  untill time produce some more  worthie worke,  I humbly take my leave. Remembring till death. 
 Your much obliged, and devoted Chaplaine  Richard Ward. 

