
 
 
 TO THE RIGHT WORSHIPFVLL my Noble Friend N.H. 
 S YR, 
 I must euer acknowledge my selfe obliged in term's of Friendship to satisfy your so reasonable demaund, which is only to shew you my opinion concerning a late borne Treatise,  The Religion of Protestantss a safe way &c.  For your owne part you professe you are satisfied already for the matter it self, that nothing solid or substantiall can come forth, for the defence of so bad, or offence of so good a cause; but the world (you say) cries it vp, and you would gladly see it disabused. Indeed, as concerning the vulgar acceptance, I vnderstand no lesse, and withall I remember how the Father, or grand-Father of this, was the popular applause and acclamation for a while, & those vpcryes comming often to my eares, I said as often I confesse,
 — O saclum insipiens, & infacetum!  Grieuing togeather with some litle indignation, that
 of true iudgment in writings of this nature, there appeared so great penury and barrennes in this Land: though I was not ignorant that very many were to be found of either Vniuersity, whose more solid erudition and vnderstanding decry'd it as fast, though not so lowd. 
 But before you haue my censure of the worke it selfe, I shall acquaint you with the common voyce (if perchance you haue not hard it) concerning certaine circumstances of the Worke; the why's and wherefor's, the motiues to these enterprizings and aduocating for other men: & first of all concerning his ioint-printing and coedition of his Aduersary with his owne worke, some said it was square and faire dealing; other's that it was a prodigious coniunction, no losse then the Hippocentaure; others that this committing himselfe with his Aduersary in the same volume, would cause an odious comparison, disaduantagious to the Author. 
 Sic interpositus vitio contaminat vncto 
 Vrbica Lingonicus Tyrianthina Bardocucullus. 
 Sic Aretinae violant Chrystallina testae. 
 Sic niger in ripis errat cùm fortè Caeystri 
 Inter Laedeos ridetur coruus olores. 
 Sic vbi multisonâ feruet sacer Athide lucus, 
 Improba Cecr pias offendit pica querelas. 
 Vindice nil opus est, aut charactire malign , 
 Stat contra, & cuius tua sit mihi pagina clamat. 
 Which superlatiue difference they obserued (as I conceaue) rather in the spirit of writing, then in the wording. And namely they obserue that his personall reproaches, his style of contumely, compared with the ciuil and mild composure of his aduersary; his iocularie and geering humor, with the others graue and serious
 menage; his fraudulent and sophisticall syllogizing, with his plaine & regular discourse; his lurking, and scotizing, and affecting obscurity, his ouercasting with mist's of subtile interpretations his aduersaries plaine wordes, seeking or making the Knot where it is not, parallel'd with the others opennes and endeauour to giue day to truth; lastly his immethodicall structure and digesture of the whole worke confronted with the others perspicuity and light of order, will appeare in this neerenes and vicinity much more contemptible, then if they stood aloof, and at distance in seuerall impressions. 
 Yet others say againe, that euen in this he was wise, and prouident in his generation: yea that surely some higher power directed his designe; as the Goddesse of wisedome is said to haue carried the arrow drawne at the brest of  Menelaus  vpon his belt, & so of no force to wound as was intended, but yet inough to occasion continuance of the War, and the ensuing victory of the  Grecians;  that by these two prouisions diuine and humane, of God &  M. Ch.  (if this commission be not yet more odious then the former) many things are effected commodious to all sides. 
 To his aduersary; whose worke by this opportunity is euery man's money, and in euery mans hand's  Cum Priuilegio,  hath his protection from his aduersarie; and out of a strange mistaking Charity, is permitted to fight vnder his Shield, like a little  Teucer  vnder his cozen  Aiax  buckler, shooting not only at the common enemy, but euen at  Aiax  himselfe, out of a like confidence perhap's that, hauing combatted himselfe, and hauing beene too hard for himselfe so often, he is vnconquerable by any other,
 
 Nec quisquam Aiacem poterit superare, nisi Aiax. 
 Commodious to the reader, who hath the ioint-impression at an easier rate both of price and pain's; hath now no more to do, but turne the leafe, and (if he please) sing a new song: yet with this odd's, I confesse, that while he read's, or hardly read's the Catholique volume miserably contracted like another  Homer  into a nut-shel; he beholds the Protestants Atturney like a new  Edgar  vnder saile, gloriously swelling in displayed Characters,
 Vt populus tumido gaudeat Antimacho. 
 Gainfull lastly to himselfe, who by this co-impression becomes more vendible, and makes a more swift returne of the commodity; his friends buy him more greedily, out of an appetite and curiosity to see the man, committed face to face with his aduersarie, how manfully he bestir's himselfe. The friends of his aduersarie perhap's conuinc'd with the euidence of his discourse and deductions, will be couetous to see what can be said to these; how such arguments will be cleared; how the Aduocate will vnty the  Gordian  Knot like an  Aristotle,  or like an  Alexander:  All men I thinke, after so large and low'd promises of an vtter confutation will be desirous to vnderstand,
 Quid dignum tanto ferat hic promissor hiatu. 
 Thus all sides, a man would thinke, will be pleased, and he, the author of this co-impression, most of all; who hauing beene at great charges, and hauing his money out vpon the worke, would gladly, no doubt, see it backe againe, together with the fruite of his expectation. And to say sooth, who sow's but he would reape? who plant's a vineyard but he would eat the fruit therof? 
 
 I haue met with some other Censurers, who in my iudgment proceed too far this way, taking the boldnes to penetrate those  adita,  those very conclaues of men's intentions. And, whereas there are to be considered two ends in euery artificiall worke, the one intrinsique, the other extrinsique, the former the end of the Art, the later of the Artist; this being so sacred, that he might iustly interdict all ingresse to any mortal man, might paint two snakes at the entrance with this Epigraphe,
 — Sacer hic locus, extra &c. 
 Yet to such an Hyperbole of presumption are men arriued in this age, that enter they will like any Purseuant, into the very in-roomes, and bowels of the most secret counsail's and designes of other men. But while by glossing his intention they will seeme forsooth to excuse him, in my opinion, they do but geere him; who, as though they had heard what he spake in his hart, take vpon them to personate him in his owne words. 
 What I do in this writing for Protestant's, I do it not, out of malice; nor out of any ill will towards the cause I impugne, no nor good will towards the cause I propugne: but,  (vt verum fabuler,)  to deale plainly with you, reflecting vpon my selfe standing thus neutral between two potent factions, and being now as weary as any Posthorse with Canterburying so oft from  Thebes  to  Athens,  and from  Athens  to  Thebes,  and by all these iourney's and defatigations, hauing gained nothing by either but sweat and iealousie; calling often to mind the wise sentence of  Salust, Frustra niti, neque aliud se fatigando, nisi odium quaerere, extremae dementiae est;  t'is mere madnes to take paines to no purpose,
 to make no other purchase, but displeasure; I resolued vpon a course how to endeare my selfe vnto one, and the rather to that part, which professed most fayth, as the most likely to belieue me. But these truly I hold to be but idle comment's and surmises, wholy Heterodox from his true meaning and intention. 
 As that likewise of some others, that by these so many his turn's and return's, he affects a Name, to make himselfe knowne to the world, vpon that knowledge and diffamation to raise his fortunes; or to lye like a foot-ball betweene the Goales, to become the ambition of Competitors,
 — Multorum spes inuidiosa procorum:  and then, a  Qui plus, qui potior est ad dandum &c.  win me, and weare me. 
 Now this  Fescennine  liberty of Censure, for myne owne part, I vtterly dislike. For I loue the man, and wish he may so come off after all these changes, that he may not be loued without a riual. And t'is well, yea surely a singular argument of Gods goodnes and prouidence, that the things in nature most necessary for man's vse, are the readiest at hand, and the most obuious acquest: as euen here, for this aduocate, I hold it much more easy to become a good Christian, then to be thought so. And if it be true which one sayth,
 Nec vixit malè qui viuens moriens{que} fefellit,  He hath not liu'd amisse whom no man know's how he hath liued or died; I am in good hope he may yet liue and dye well, and begin then to be  Magnus coram Domino,  great in Gods ey's, when he shall be little in the ey's of men, especially in his owne. 
 To returne now to the matter in hand, permitting these and many the like censures to his verdict who
 hath one common key to vnlock all closets of harts, to whom alone that office belongs, it shall be far from any presumption of myne to passe any censure vpon these extrinsecall ends. The  fines Artis  alone, shall be my ayme; so far forth as to discouer in this worke, or rather in some part of it, what is pernicious of it selfe, and of force to do more harme then he perhaps intends. If more then this, any personal touch of censure chance to fall from my vnwilling pen, meeting with his like humor and begotten of it, as  simile gignit sibi simile,  like begets the like, heate produce's heat, & fire produce's fire; and as his personall humor running along through his discourse (indeed a very salt humor) may cast some salt into my pen, I shall hope that a reasonable defence or excuse may be presumed from any indifferent man, euen out of the consideration of these Premises; wherin also I can easily maintaine a very honest intention, as to shew the man himselfe in a conuenient distance from himselfe, for that indistancy of the obiect is wont to hinder sensation. In the meane tyme verily it may seeme an incredible effect of a prodigious  Philautie,  or  Authadie,  or what else you will please to call that darke and cloudy affection, able to put out the light of the sun at midday, if it could reach it, that a man otherwise rational, yea who makes reason his Oracle, his Card, his Cynosure; witty too, yea an idolater of wit, should owe so little to either, as not to haue discouered his owne, so many grosse follies errors, vanities, indecencies, yea inciuilities; besides his so many fraudes and shiftes, and Paralogismes and fallacies, his wilfull and affected mistakinges and misvnderstanding his Aduersary, and the like, for which his conscience hath more to answere then his wit; and
 that after making so large an ostentation of all kind of literature, he should do nothing else in all, but abuse all; and fall so short of the expectation of those who knew him, that now they can by no meanes know him, in his  Worke.  For my owne part, I haue beene so charitable as to thinke the Worke none of his who entitles it; or his so altered, and Sophisticate, that he may iustify the disclayming it: Therefore as conceaued such vpon good groundes I shall make the more bold with it. 
 Now then only to satisfy your intreaty, what I haue heere censured in general termes, I shall apply to particulars as they lye in my way, whyle I run along with this  whosoeuer,  or  incerti generis  Author; but yet so, as to be at liberty, to take vp when I list. For I am not match't with him; and I doubt not, but he hath met with his match: yet perhap's, I shall take vp so, as it shall appeare I might haue made it good to the last. 

