
 
 TO THE QUEENE OF GREAT  BRITAINE. 
 MADAME, 
 I  Could not  approach,  but with a  MIRROVR  in my  hand,  before your  Majestie,  the  splendour  of whose  magnificence  dazles so powerfully all the  world,  that I am not able to behold the  immediate presence  on't, but by the  reflection  of its  Rayes.  Without fiction,  MADAME,  your  Glory  is
 arrived to the  point  of rendring your  perfections  so unknowne, as being so above the  commune;  that I beleeve most men  honour you  now by  observance  and  example  onely, as not able  otherwise  to  reach  the depth of the  just reasons  they might have for it. Nor is this  All,  to say that you are  solely faire,  and  perfectly chaste;  but it is  necessarie,  beyond all  this,  to  intimate secretly,  in the  Language  of  Thought,  all the  divine qualities  which you  possesse  of  Super-eminence  in all  things,  since their  puritie  cannot discend to the  capacitie  of our  discourse,  without suffering a kind of  prophanation.  From hence is it, that if I should call you,  THE COMPLEATLY-PERFECT,  I might well say in effect that which you are; but  never  thus should I represent the  greatnesse  of your  merits,  since every of  them  in it selfe has such  particular perfections,  as might challenge
 Altars  from us, if your  humilitie  could permit it. These are such  Truths (MADAME)  as hinder me from  praysing  your  Majestie,  not knowing how to  expresse  my selfe  condignely.  Well might I perhaps suggest it to  remembrance,  that your  particular inclinations  are the  publike Vertues  which we  adore,  and that of the same  temperament  of humour,  Nature  composed heretofore the  Sages  of the  World:  But of all these  discourses  notwithstanding, I cannot frame one onely  prayse  sufficiently  adaequate  to your  worth,  seeing 'tis  elevated  beyond all  Eulogiums.  Insomuch, that if  Admiration  it selfe teach not a new  Language  to  posteritie,  wherein to proclaime  aloud  the  favours  and  graces  wherewith  Heaven  hath accomplisht you; it must content it selfe, to  reverence  your  Name,  and  adore  your  Memorie,  without presumption of  speech  of your  actions,  as being  ever  above all  valuation,  as well as  imitation. 
 To instance the  immortalitie  of your  AuGUSTICK Race,  although it be a pure  Source of Honour,  which can never be  dry'd up;  yet all these  Titles  of a  Kings Daughter, Sister,  and  Wife,  can never adde to your  Renowne,  which derives its  value  rather from the  admirabilities  of your  Life,  then the  greatnesse  of your  Birth.  Insomuch  (MADAME)  that the  Scepters  and  Crownes  of your  Royalties,  are the meanest  Ornaments  wherewith your  Majestie  can  decke  it selfe; since the least glympse of the least of your  Actions,  duskes the luster of all the other  magnificences,  which environ you. And I beleeve, had those  Wonders of the World  beene of such a  worth,  as every day you  descry,  they had powerfully  resisted  against the  assaults  of  Ages:  but as they had nothing  admirable  in them, but the  Name, Memorials  have  preserved that,  and let  them perish.  But
 yours  (MADAME)  which are  too perfect  for a  sutable Name,  shall not cease to  survive  the  revolutions  of  Times,  as being  enlivened  by  Vertue,  which alone can exempt from  Death.  Let it not seeme  strange  then, if I hazard the  perils  of the  Sea,  to render  Homage  to a  QUEENE,  whose  Greatnesse  perforce  humbles  the most  arrogant spirits,  being not able, so much as in  thought,  to  reach  to the  first degree  of her  Glory.  The  GRACES  themselves are  hers,  and the  VERTUES  have  allianced  their  owne  and  her Name;  and all the  adorable qualities  which are found here  below,  are  admirable  in her  alone,  as in their  Source.  I am constrained to be  silent (MADAME)  being over-charged with too much  subject  of  speech.  The  number  of your  Perfections  astonishes me, the  greatnesse  of your  Merit  ravishes me, the  splendour  of your  Vertue 
 dazles me: And in this  dazle,  this  transport,  this excesse of  admiration,  wherein my  senses  and  spirits  are all alike  engaged,  I am compell'd to cast my selfe at the  feet  of your  Majestie,  and demand  pardon  of the boldnesse which I assume onely to enjoy the  stile  of 
 MADAME,   Your  MAIESTIES Most humble, and most obeysant Servant, P.  De la  SERRE. 

