
 
 
 TO THE RIGHT HONOVRABLE  Thomas Atkin,  Lord Major of the Honourable City of LONDON. 
 Right Honourable, 
 B Y a Note under your own hand, I was appointed to preach at  Paul's  Church on the  seventeenth of November.  The  seventeenth of November  is a day of so high account with me, that I durst not make any excuse, though otherwise in way of excuse, I might have pleaded my age, my weaknesse, and multitude of other imployments: but the  seventeenth of November,  being such a day as is set out to be in the following Sermon, ought to be had in perpetuall remembrance. It may be that all have not that day in so high account as I have, and that if another had performed that duty, he would have over-slipt it, without any mention made thereof. Length of time makes memorable matters to be forgotten; and it is now above fourscore and six yeares since that  seventeenth of November.  Therein  England  first received such a blessing as never ought to slip out of the heart of an  English  man. That  seventeenth of November  was the day when unparallel'd  Queene Elizabeth 
 
first came to the Crowne. Thorough Gods blessing, I spent eight and twenty yeares of my dayes under her raigne; and I have oft blessed God that I was borne, and so long brought up in that blessed time. I have been called in my younger yeares to performe publike Scholasticall duties on a  seventeenth of November,  and me thought, I never performed any more cheerfully. The very subject matter put life and spirit into me. Since I was called to the ministeriall Function, I have many yeares on the  seventeenth of November  made the best remembrance that I could of that dayes blessing. Being by you called to the most publike place of  London,  I could not, I durst not passe over the mention of that blessing. I did the more willingly publish it to the view of all sorts, that I may provoke others to be more mindfull of that day. And to your Honour in speciall, I dedicate these my poore labours, because you were the first mover thereunto. And now, my good  Lord,  having this occasion in publike to speake to you, give me leave, I beseech you, to stirre up your honourable mind unto such faithfull courses, as, to the joy and benefit of many, you tooke, when you were Alderman of  Farrington  within. I have been now thirty seven yeares (to the praise of Gods good Providence and mercy I speake it) a Minister of Gods Word in a  Precinct  within that  Ward:  in which time, there have been sundry severall  Aldermen.  But (to your praise, but not to the dispraise of any of the rest, I doe here publikely attest it) I never observed any more carefull of the good of their charge, more inquisitive after the same, more industrious in searching out disorders to redresse them, more pitifull over the poore, more sollicitous about such as were infected with the sicknesse, and that which sets the crowne upon all, more pious in preventing all manner of profanenesse on the  Lords Dayes,  and procuring people (so farre as in you lay) to observe the holy Ordinances thereof. 
 Right honourable, the Lord hath now advanced you to a higher place, given you a larger jurisdiction, and put more power into your hand. You have now  ten  Talents in comparison of the  five  that you had before. Know that God now expecteth of you an improvement of all those  ten  Talents; Answerably more care, more industry, more diligence, more prudence, if more can be shewed, is requisite: Above all, let your conscionable care be yet more manifested about the  Lords Day;  and herein I beseech you, Sir  Thomas Middleton.  Sir  Thomas H es.  give me leave to set before you the prudent and pious course which two  Lord Majors  of famous memory, in the yeares  1613  and  1614  took thereabouts, which was this, They made choice of conscionable persons, who with an holy zeale were set against all profanenesse of that Day, and put on to redresse all manner abuses thereof: such they chose, and to such they gave power and authority to apprehend and bring before them all delinquents in that kind, whom, for the greater terrour unto others, they severely punished. Conscience will more put on pious persons to a thorough redressing of disorders, then hire or reward. It is the due execution of Law that puts life thereinto, and makes it the more effectuall: and inward Principles will work men unto a due execution more then outward motives. Goe on in promoting Gods honour, and he will promote yours. For he that said, will performe what he hath said,  Them that honour me, I will honour.  That you may doe the one, and God the other, it is the hearty prayer of 
 Your Honours daily Oratour, W. GOUGE. 

