
 
 
 TO THE RIGHT HONOVRABLE
The House of PEERES
AND TO THE HONOVRABLE
The House of COMMONS
Assembled in Parliament at
Westminster. 
 T He Records of Holy Scripture, whether they concerne
the Actions of GOD or Men, are not onely
 Stories  of things done in that Age, but  Prophesies 
also of future events in succeeding Generations.
This GOD hath been pleased to exemplifie
particularly  in that Word,  which divers weekes agoe on a
Solemne Day appointed for extraordinary Humiliation  He
sent to be preached in your Eares.  While some bodily Indispositions
hindred me from a speedy obeying the Call of tendring
it also to your  hands  and  eyes:  It seemed good to Him,  (who
doth all things wisely and faithfully,)  to give Instances of
His fulfilling both parts of it; affording some  answers of
Grace,  and expressions  of Pardon  and favour in Wales and
the parts thereabouts; and yet withall  taking some Vengeance
upon our untowardnesses,  by the sad blow given us in
the West. I hope that as we shall all learne by it, even more and
more, that 1 Sam. 3. 19.   GOD lets none of His Words fall to the
ground,  but whatsoever He speakes to us hath its effect upon
 
us, and Zech. 1. 6.   takes hold of us,  even whether we take hold of it or
no: So we will beleeve also, that  the effect of it will never be
spent as long as we live,  or any of mankind, in as much as  all
the Word of GOD lives and abides for ever,  as both the Isai. 40 8.  Prophet and 1 Pet. 1. 23. 25.  Apostle tell us. And this Beliefe will both make
all the Word profitable to us, and make us Happy by the Word:
 The Promises and Expressions of Grace in the Word never
doing us good, never being fulfilled to us compleatly,
but by our beleeving them: And the Threatnings or Expressions
of Severity never endangering us, never being fulfilled
at all upon us, but when we beleeve them not.  We
have all need to Pray, Luke 17. 5.   LORD Encrease our Faith!  even in
relation to  Terrifying  Truths, as well as to  Comforting.  And
though Faith most commonly comes  by Hearing,  yet unquestionable
Experience telling us, that it is partly encreased  by Reading 
also, (specially of what was once attentively heard) I cannot
doubt, but this Paper-remembrance of matters of so grand
Importance, will be blessed by GOD, as to some others into whose
hands it shall come, so specially to your selves, according to  Your 
Leasure for making use of it,  unto your Furtherance and Joy
of Faith.  Which that it may be continually augmented in You,
who have so great businesses to goe through, and so great Adversaries
to encounter, and all Calling for  Faith  in the strength and
Glorie of it, through Iesus Christ  the Author and Finisher of
our Faith,  is and shall be the earnest Desire and Prayer of Him,
who is for IESVS sake 
 Your ever most Devoted
and Humble Servant
HERBERT PALMER. 

