
 
 
 TO THE  Honourable House of  COMMONS  assembled in Parliament at Westminster. 
 Renowned worthies, 
 T He sense of mine own weaknesse forbid mee being ambitious, Potentum petitiones sunt quodammodè imperia Pet. Mar. in Reg.  either of preaching at  Westminster,  or of appearing in  print  till a  Parliamentary request  (which is equivalent to a command) calls first for the one, afterwards for the other; whereupon  I consulted not with flesh and blood,  but resolved to yeeld to both; being willing, rather to be censured of the  world  for  weaknes  then of you for  disrespect.  The sermon is but  plain  and  shalow:  what else can be expected from him, who savours neither of delicacy nor depth; Sala. praes in lib. de guber.  Besides my aim was  Vtilia magis quam plausibilia sectari,  rather to be  profitable  then  plausible;  conceiving that on fasting daies tis not so sutable to inform the judgement or  tickle the ears:  as to move the affection, and  touch the heart. 
 The subject seems very pertinent to the present season. It is a declining age, we all are fallen. You  (honoured worthies)  are fallen so low, that few do so esteem or stand in awe of you as they ought. Your  clemency 
 (which among men of ingenuous spirits makes you the more  honourable ) among those that have been delinquents make you the more  contemptible;  They say your  Ordinances,  are charged only with powder and paper, they are but words or winde, they fear them not: I beseech you if they regard not your  rods,  let them know you have  scorpions. 
 The people of this land are generally so fallen, that many question whether they will over be able to rise again. There is astrange change in some prosessours, they that were wont to  strain at Gnats,  can now  swallow camels.  And many long more now, after old  superstition  then they did formerly for  reformation.  This made me think I should scarce discharge a good conscience, if I did not cry out,  Let's remember from whence we are fallen,  and not rest there, but  let's repent;  which will not appear, unlesse we reform  and do the first works.  This is the substance of that which was lately  proclaimed  in  your ears,  and is now  presented  to  your eyes.  And that it may be  planted  in all our  hearts,  and practised in our lives, is, and shall be, the prayer of, 
 Your most willing, though most unworthy, servant in the Lord,  RICHARD KENTISH. 
 From my obscure study at  Katherines neer  the Tower  London.  Decemb. 1  1647. 

