
 
 
 TO THE RIGHT HONOVRABLE HOVSE OF Lords Assembled in PARLIAMENT. 
 T He differences and  Divisions  of  England  at this day are so many, so great, and so  destructive  to  Church  and  State,  as that it cannot but be accounted a  transcendent  act of  Piety  and  Charitie  for any man to endevour according to his place to compose the one, and remove the other. But though this worke be very excellent, yet it is also very dangerous to him that shall undertake it. For it is often found, that he that will step into reconcile two parties that are a  fighting,  doth prove the party against which both of them will  fight.  Or if not both, yet alwaies the party that doth the wrong will be a bitter enemie to him that would make up the breach. And therefore it is expressely said,  Act. 7. 26, 27.  That when  Moses  saw two of his brethren striving one aagainst
 
the other, and stept in to set them at one, saying, Sirs, ye are brethren, why wrong ye one another?  He that did his neighbour the wrong thrust him away, saying, Who made thee a Ruler and a Judge over us?  But yet notwithstanding, happy is that man whom God shall make any wayes instrumentall to the bringing in of a holy and blessed Peace into this distressed Iland, though with the losse of his owne life. Famous is the example of  Gregory Nazianzen,  who was  Bishop  of  Constantinople,  eminent for Learning and Piety: And yet when he saw a prevailing Faction endevouring to choose another into his place, and that it would much disturbe the peace of the Citie  Ruffini histor. Ecclesiast. lib. 2. cap. 9. if he did not yeeld it up; he brake out into this speech:  Absit, inquit, ut mei causâ aliqua simultas oriatur in Dei Sacerdotibus. Si propter me est ista tempestas, tollite, & mittite me in mare, & desinet à vobis quassatio. God forbid that for my cause any difference should arise amongst the Ministers of God: If this tempest be raised for my cause, take me, & throw me into the Sea that so the tempest may cease.  A sentence worthy to be written in  letters of Gold,  and to be put in practise by every true hearted  Englishman.  The like we read of  Codrus  a  Heathen King,  who for the love of his people exposed himselfe to death. And of  Curtius,  and of three  Decii  that devoted themselves to ruine for the safetie of their Countrey. The Booke of God tels us of  Moses  that was willing to have his name blotted out of the Booke of life: and of  Paul  that was willing to be an  Anathema,  that so God might be reconciled to the people of  Israel  with whom he was displeased. But the greatest example of all is of our  Lord and blessed
 
Saviour,  who emptied himselfe of his Divinitie, and became a servant, and a curse, that he might become our  Peace-maker. 
 Much to this purpose is said in the insuing Sermon, which is now made publique by your Commands. Something also is said to keep up your spirits from being over-dismaied at the consideration of these Landdestroying Divisions. Great are the  searchings  and  tremblings  of heart, because of these Divisions. But be not over-discouraged: It is  Gods Prerogative  to bring  light out of darknesse, good out of evill, unitie out of division.  He worketh by  contrarie  meanes as well as by  unlikely  meanes. He delivered  Jonah  by a  Whale,  and kept him (as  Basil  saith)  vivus in sepulchro.  He raised  Joseph  by casting him into  prison;  he cured the blind man by  clay and spittle.  And I doubt not but he will bring a great deale of good at last out of our Divisions. It is observable that  Simeon  and  Levi,  that at first were  brethren in iniquitie,  joyning together to destroy the  Shechemites,  and for this cruel act, as a sutable punishment, were  divided in Jacob, and scattered in Israel, Gen. 49. 7.  Yet notwithstanding because afterwards  Levi  was zealous for God against the worshippers of the golden Calfe, and did appeare valiantly on Gods side,  Exod. 32. 26.  God did turne this  curse  into a  blessing, Deut. 33. 10.  For  Levi  was consecrated to  teach Jacob Gods judgement, and Israel his law,  &c. And the  Simeonites,  as  Ainsworth  observes,  Ainsw. xi Gen. 4 . 7. were also  Teachers of the Law in the Synagogues of Jacob;  and the  Levites in the Schooles of the sonnes of Israel.  This story is written for our consolation. The time was when we dwelt in peace and
 
unity, but then we combined against God and his children; and for this cause as a just curse, God hath divided us one from another, to the utter ruine one of another. But yet notwithstanding, if you (Right Honorable) will goe on to shew your selves zealous for God and his Cause, and to appeare vigorously and faithfully on his side; God will turne our great  curse  into a great  blessing.  And as the dividing of the  Red Sea  was made by God a way and meanes to lead the people of  Israel  over into  Canaan,  and to destroy the  Egyptians:  So God will make our Divisions in this Red Sea of bloud, into which we are plunged, a way and meanes to a happy  Canaan  of unitie and peace; and to the utter ruine of our implacable Adversaries. Thus he did with the divisions of  Paul  and  Barnabas,  as this Sermon relates unto you. Onely be couragious for God, and in nothing be terrified at our differences, but make your peace with him, and he at lastwill make us at peace one with another: which is the earnest prayer of 
 Your Honours 
Spirituall servant, 
EDMUND CALAMY. 

