
 
 
 TO THE HONORABLE House of COMMONS, now assembled in PARLIAMENT. 
 I   Dare not dispute your  Power,  for even Dr.   Dr.  Fern  his Conscience satisfyed lately printed at Oxford. sect. 2. pag 6.  Ferne  himself is  Satisfied in his Conscience  (or else he would never have granted it in his Tract, entituled  Conscience Satisfied) that the two Houses of Parliament are, in a sort, Coordinate with His Majesty  ad aliquid, to some  Act, or Exercising of Supreme Power, that is, to the making of Laws, by yeelding their consent: and this  (saith he)  they have by a Fundamentall Constitution:  Nay, the Order of the House of Commons cannot in reason but oblige all the Commons of  England;  it doth not indeed oblige the King, he is exempt by his Soveraignty; the Lords plead  Peerage,  I have not yet heard of any other Plea, and therefore I will not dispute your Power, but obey your Order. You shall have the glory to command,  mihi autem  obsequii gloria  relicta est,  pardon the expression: we  Merton College men  have been used to  Tacitus,  'tis his expression. 
 The times are sad, my Text was seasonable: Though  Babylon  be at  Rome,  yet there are some  sonnes  and  daughters  of  Babylon  too here in  England: Sion  is now surrounded by them, and your Honourable House is most eminently opposed by them: Many there are that plot against you, all the Antichristian Politicians in the Christian world are beating their brains how to destroy you, but their Plots are discovered, their Designes defeated by the  watchfull providence of an Omniscient God,  Many
 
there are that fight against you,  against you,  I say, for it is evident that those many thousands who are up in Arms, do not fight  for the King,  but  against the Parliament:  This man fights for a place at Court, and the other, perchance, for a place in the Church, or rather over the Church:  O bloody Simony!  some fight for  Pluralities,  and some for  Bishopriks,  some for  Patents,  some for  Monopolies;  some have lost their places in the  Star-Chamber,  and  High Commission,  and have scarce any thing to  rast to but the sword. The  Papists  fight to subvert Religion:  Delinquents,  to subvert the Laws, and the Parliament too, because it hath power to  make, declare, enforce the Law:  The  Roysters  fight to destroy your persons, and gaine your estates to pay their  Tavern-tickets:  and yet there is a Divine, one Dr.   erne,  who seems to excuse all this, and by his excuse, doth certainly encourage them, to do what is inexcusable. And the good Doctor would fain perswade you and all the Commons of  England,  to sit still the whilest,  and lose your Religion for Conscience  ake;  your Laws, Liberties, Estates, Lives, for  Peace  sake: And what will  Peace  advantage your Posterity, if the Army in the North will give them  Peace  upon no other terms then these; that either they must turn  Papists,  or else be content to be  Beggers,  and which is worse,  Slaves?  Some that gloried in the Title of  Royalists,  do now perceive,  That it is not enough, to stand for the King, unlesse they will declare themselves for the Queen:  and they are not a little startled at that:  Is this the Bishops holy War for the Catholique Church?  Be it the Bishops War, saith Dr.  Ferne  in his first Book▪ Well, be it so: Why, then sure the Bishops have much blood to answer for. For it is well known to this whole Kingdom, and to some Churches abroad, that the Parliament desired to have all Church-matters fairly debated,   ,  as  Nazianzen  speaks, not by an  Army,  but by an  Assembly;  the Bishops then have clearly declined this Rationall way of triall, and taken up Arms against the Parliament in the old quarrell, and sure the Parliament hath good reason to defend themselves. It seems the Bishops arguments are spent, and therefore they  call for Powder and Bullets, to prove that Prelacie is  Jure divino. I say  Prelacy,  for there is a great deal of difference between  Prelates,  and  Bishops.
 
 Pontifices  nunc  Bella  juvant, sunt caetera  nugae.   Palingenius. 
 What they cannot prove by the  Word,  they would fain make good by the sword. What? because men of tender consciences can be no longer pursued in their  Courts,  must they be pursued even unto death, by force of  Arms?  but stay: What's their fault? Why, they are enemies: They are enemies to such pomp and state as (some Bishops cannot but confesse) may well be spared. This Plot came from  Rome,  for I remember  Hostiensis  saith, That from the dayes of  Pope  Adrian, till his time, the  Cardinals  and  Bishops  of  Rome  had scarce ever laid down their Arms.   Nunc belligerantur Episcopi, nec ali d fere quam belligerantur. Eras. Annot in cap. 3. Luc .  Erasmus  complained, that in his time the Bishops were men of warre. When the Duke  D'Alva  tyrannized over the  Netherlands,  there were new Bishops   Mr.  Fullers  Pro▪ fane State.  . 19.  Sees  erected in every City, and then presently the  Inquisition  was brought in upon them: as if there could never have been any absolute tyranny without the help of the Bishops. But you will tell me, that  the Men  may be faulty, and yet  the Order  blamelesse. I answer, that the dignity of their Order should be tried by the  Word,  and the men being faulty, should not be protected by the  Sword▪  Blush ye heavens, and be ashamed, O earth, that ever proud ambitious spirits should enflame differences between King and Parliament, onely that they may feed themselves with vain hopes of being  Bishops  at last, and enjoying  Pluralities  the whilest. Let the  Searcher of hearts  judge between us, and let them beware that they do not hear aconfounding voice, like that in the Historian,  Quintili Vare redde Legiones, Tu Episcope redde Legiones, redde Animas.  I was bold in my Sermon to lay  Prelacy  as low as  Prelaticall  men have laid  Monarchy.  I was too bold, they say, in calling the Pope whore so often. But it is as certain that Pope  John  the eighth, (or  Joan  the first) was a Whore, as the credit of impartiall Historians (I except the Sacred   See Mr.  Alexander Co k  his Dialogue about Pope   oane. Cognomine Anglicus, natione Moguntinus▪ vide F sci  temporum ata  6. ad An. 854.   onely) can make a matter of fact certaine, which was done so long ago. The ancient Popish Historians acknowledge this truth. The Successour of  Leo  the fourth is generally described, by name  John  the eighth, by firname  English,  by place a  Pope,  by s x a  woman,  aod by her lust a  Whore:  She tyrannized somewhat above two years, some reckon the moneths and dayes; she played the beast with one of her own servants, and died in travail, in time of solemn Procession
 
in the high street. No man ever went about to prove this Story a Fable, but he proved himself a Foole. For this story is confirmed by the testimony of    &   Theodoricus de N em,  one of the Popes Secretaries, by    Charanza  Archbishop of  Toledo,  by     ulgosus,  sometimes Duke of  Gen a,  by   D  m mora  Platina,  keeper of the Library in the  Vatican  at  Rome,  a man commanded to write the truth by   De    Pope  Sixtus  the fourth; a man that had been racked and deprived of his dignities by  Paul  the second: it seemes he bad spoken truth too freely, and therefore  Sixtus  restored him to his     dignities, and did not onely enjoyn, but encourage him to write the truth. To these I might adde  John  of  Paris,  Divinity Reader in the Ʋniversity of  Paris, g Pola s  an Archbishop, and the Po es Pe tiary,  h Trithemius  Abbot of S .  Martins  Monastery,  i Philippus Bergomensis,  I will not omit  Krantius,  he is an excellent Chronographer, and  k Bellarmine  saith, not to be suspected, because he wrote before  Luther,  nor is  Achil es Gras erus  to be d srespected, because he collected his Epitome out of very ch ce Historians. Here is weight in these testimonies, if any man look for number, he may see  Sigebert, Boccace, Mantuan, Petrarch, Gotefridus, Viterbien s, Palmerius, Nauclerus,  abellicus, Volateran, Schedel,  and divers others cited at  arge in that learned  ra t of Mr.  Alexander Cook,  set out on purpose to confirm this truth: or he may read Mr.  Bell  his Mo ives, or his Survey of Popery; Books that I never yet saw answered. But what if one  Pope  were a  Whore,  and delivered of a Bastard before all the People, peradventure the rest of the Popes    D  .   were more holy. No,  John  the eleventh was promoted to the Popedome by  Theodora  a famous Whore:  John  the twelfth, was a  Bastard  begotten of  Marozia  (another mans wife) by Pope  Sergius  the third:  John  the thirteenth abused his fathers Concu e. Some Popes have been notorious for Incest and Sodomy,  Julius  the second,  Martin  the second, and divers others;  Boniface  the eighth had issue by both his Nieces,  Lucretia  was daughter and whore to Pope  Alexander  the sixth; her Epitaph will be more lasting then Brasse or Marble, 
 Hoc jacet in tumulo  Lucretia  nomine, sed re 
 Thais, Alexandri  filia, sponsa, nurus. 
 
 You may see more instances in  Platina, O phrius, Sleidan.  We are so much given to  Romane Courtship  now adayes, and our ears have been so little used till now of late to the old expressions of zealous Protestants, that such like passages will be counted little lesse then rayling by some  Gentle Readers;  but let such hear what Reverend Dr.  Abbor,  sometimes Bishop of  Sarum,  a man of a meek spirit, observed when he treated of this Argument. The   Ib. ubi supra pag. 199.  Pontificall Chair,  saith he, was so infected with that  She-Pope  and famous Whore  John  the eighth, that scarce any man ever since climbed up to that Seat of Pestilence, but he hath stunck of that, or some other  Whore.  I will not give you occasion to stop your noses, by ripping up the beastlinesse of the fat Monks, and wanton Priests, whom the people might well call  Fathers,  because they begot   Hos iens de Orig. M nach lib. 6 c. 3.   so many  Bastards;
 Non male sunt  Monachis  gra a indita nomina Patrum, 
 Cum numerent natos hic & ubique suos. 
 There hath been enough said, to give (and I know all impartiall men will take) satisfaction. The  great Designe  I had in my Sermon, was to overthrow  Babylon,  and build up  Sion.  I touched upon the  Heresie, Idolatry, Tyranny,  of the Antichristian Faction, that Protestants might be mo e watchfull, and Popery more odious, It is my daily prayer, that God would unite the King and Parliament; and my  great Request  to your Honourable House was, that you would put forth your strength for the recovery of that Power, which the Antichristian Faction by force, or fraud hath wrested out of the Kings hand, that when it is regained, it may be setled upon the Kings Royall Person, and Posterity. For this end and purpose, I made an humble Motion to you, that you would seriously consider what Points we must stand upon, and what Errours we must Protest against, that so there might be a more speciall and punctuall  Covenant of Peace  drawn up, subscribed, nay sealed,  and King and Parliament might Victoriously  joyn in an happy  Union  against the Antichristian Faction,  this in England,  which is  intimately Confederate with that in Ireland,  and equally Rebellious against the  Kings  Authority in His highest Court of Justice. In my discourse about the Covenant, I mentioned a Book, which directs us how to make a  Christian Pacification
 
by a thorow Reformation:  The Authour of that Book did not set himself to dispute with Turks, or Jews, or grosse Papists, but with some treacherous Reconcilers, who under  colour of Pacification,  and some pretence of a  moderate Reformation,  would take away  half Christ  at least, and  three quarters of our old Creed,  as if they could make us amends, by giving us  a New one,  and we might  Covenant to tear Christ and his Gospel to pieces for Peace sake.  The Protestants talked much of the Cause of Christ (saith the same Authour) as long as they had   .   their swords by their sides, but when they had laid down their Arms, and were in danger of their lives, then they forgat the Cause of Christ, and began to think that zeal was rashnesse, and constancy stubbornnesse. But if we love Christ and our souls better then our lives, let us resolve  never to embrace any conditions of Peace  which mingle the Inventions of men with the truth of God: Let us maintain the  Doctrine of free Justification,  our Salvation depends upon it, and let us preserve the  Worship of God entire and pure;  for saith he, if we look onely to  matters of Faith,  and contend not for  purity of Worship,  we seem to  have lesse care of Gods honour, then of our Salvation.  Moreover, in matters of such moment, we must weigh and consider every  phrase, word, title,  lest by obscure, or slipper  terms, our Adversaries evade, and leave us in the lurch. This is the substance of the first Chapter. His second Chapter concerns  Justification,  and he would have us consider, that it is not enough to say,  we are justified by Faith,  but we must say,  we are justified by Faith, because Christs righteousnesse is imputed, and our sins are not imputed to us that beleeve.  We must not deny our Regeneration, and yet we must not confound it with our justification. We must obey God with all our heart, and all our strength, and yet we must not plead any other obedience  for our Justification  at the Tribunall of God, save the obedience of Iesus Christ. Our good works shall be rewarded, that's encouragement enough; but the reward is grounded upon a free Pardon, and a gracious acceptation: if we were not first justified, our works would not be accepted, nor rewarded; Because our persons are accepted in Christ, therefore our works are rewarded for Christ; that imperfect righteousnesse of works which we have, doth wholly depend upon the righteousnesse
 
of faith; now the imperfection of our righteousnesse is pardoned, the sincerity of our obedience is accepted, and yet we are not justified by our own sincere obedience, no not in part, but are onely (and wholly, because perfectly) justified by the compleat and perfect obedience of Iesus Christ. We must then trust with our whole soul to the obedience of Iesus Christ, and not trust at all to any good quality infused into us, or good works wrought by us, for our Iustification: This is the pure Protestant Religion, commended to us in the second Chapter. In his third Chapter, he doth largely explain the office, and use of Faith, because Faith is the instrument of our justification, and we can never keep the unity of Faith in the bond of Peace, if we do not agree about the Nature, or the Offices, and use of Faith. I am sorry I must lay aside this Book, but if you will be pleased to take it up, I may conclude my Epistle; onely give me leave to renew my suit to you, concerning a Nationall  Covenant,  a Nationall  Thanksgiving,  a speedy and free  Assembly:  If the Prelaticall men are displeased, that so many Bishops are passed by, let them remember what the Archbishop of Canterbury   Schol G▪ Naz. d  d  vit Cer.  Archb. Cant. Relat. p.  27.   saith, That there have been some corrupt crafty Bishops, who by plots and tricks have disturbed all Synods, and most Councels.  Astutos & veteratoriae improbitatis Episcopos, qui ar ibus suis ac dolis omnia Concilia perturbabant.  I shall conclude all with that Prayer which I used at the Fast. Lord, never was there any Kingdom that made an higher Appeal to thy Majesty then our poor Kingdom hath made: Both sides appeal to thee, not onely by a Warre, but a Protestation Lord, be pleased to decide the Controversie, let that side prevail which doth most sincerely desire thy glory, the Kings good, the Kingdoms welfare by an happy Reformation, and a Christian Peace: I am sure you will say Amen to the prayer of 
 Your daily Oratour at the 
Throne of Grace, 
FRA: CHEYNELL. 

