
 
 
 TO THE RIGHT HONOVRABLE THOMAS ADAMS, Lord Major of the City of  LONDON. 
 Right Honourable, 
 I T is storied of  Diogenes  (a wise Philosopher, though a sullen Cynick) that when he was about to dis, he desired his friends about him to bury him after his death with his face downward; they thinking this request to proceed rather from his humour then from his wisedom, demanded of him the reason; he told them,  That very shortly the world would be turned upside down, and then his face would lie upward:  I need not apply this story, your Lordship is no stranger in this our  Israel,  and cannot but
 observe this manner of Change, you now sitting at the Helm for the government of this goodly City, I had almost said Nation (for  England  is in  London  at this day.) 
 I will not speak of that lovely Gemini, Religion and Law, which in the judgement of Ʋ i Religio est ibi bon  mores, & bona disciplina,  &c.  Sublata vera R ligione cor ere Re r. necesse est: Quta sublato timore Dei sequ tur impietas, & ex ca ruina Imperiorum.  Mach.  lib.  . in Dec.  l. iv.  c.  11. Psal. 4 .   Machiavell  himself do rise and fall together: I will only call upon your Lordship with the Prophet, to come and behold the works of the Lord, what alterations he hath made in this great City of  London;  which I have sometimes known, as a City like  Jerusalem,  at unity within it self: not a convicted Recusant, nor a notorious Heretike or Schismatick to be found within the walls of that City.  London,  whose twelve Companies, like the twelve Tribes of  Israel,  were wont to go up by multitudes to the House of God, not in the sound of a Trumpet and Alarm of warre, but with the joifull voices of Peace and Praise, like those that kept holy day.  London,  whose Lord Majors sword was almost as formidable within that City, as the Scepter without. But is  London  so now? I will say no more, but weep out the rest for that City where I was born and bred, and where I have spent most of my daies; whose prosperity and wellfare I have ever sought, Quae peccatis perijt, stetibus stetit.  Jer.  Epist al  D n ium.  and shall daily pray for, in the sense of  Ierome  concerning  Nineveh,  that what sin had thrown down from the firmenesse
 of rocks, grace might re-establish in the softnesse of tears. 
 The subject of this ensuing discourse (being in the number of those things that are turned upside down) is no stranger to your Lordship (though the Authour be) and cranes your patronage which in justice you cannot tell how to deny, your Lordship being appointed by the Law of the Land the sole Chancellour and Iudge of Tithes in  London  (a felicity beyond all the Kingdom besides, where the Law is at this day somewhat loose and unsetled, but only in London.) 
 Fourteen yeers are not yet elapsed and gone, since it was a common Question among the Divines of  England,  not whether Tithes were due, but whether they were not due  jure divino.  Since it was accounted a most pious and religious worke, in divers of your Lordships predecessours, to be appointed Trustees for the buying in of Impropriations of Tithes, and restoring them to the Church. Since consciencious men could not die peaceably in their beds, till they had made restitution of substracted Tithes. But now of late, a strange New-light hath appeared to a generation of men, displeased with old Truths; not such a light as appeared to the Wise-men leading them to Christ, Mat. 2.11.  and presenting him with their gold, frankincense and myrrhe, but such a kinde of light as appeared to the souldiers, by which
 they took our Saviour in the night, and stript him of all he had: Joh. 18 3.  These men in their Petitions to your Lordship, confidently tell you (for they seldom speak modestly) that Tithes are Popish, yea Iewish, and therefore to he abolished; the endowment of Churches by them, superstitious; the withholding of them, lawfull; and the paiment of them, injurious. Whether Will not this spirit of errour (in the appearance of an Angel of light) at last lead them? nay, unto what height hath it not already carried them, when they can turn Beast into  Best,  and plead for a very  Saul  to be a true  Paul? 
 My Lord, Fame hath reported you to be a Iudge of the old Portraiture, To have an Eagles eye, by an exact and diligent search into the Cause before you; a Ladies hand in the transaction of Causes with much tendernesse and compassion; and a Lions heart, to break the jaws of the wicked, and to pluck the prey out of their teeth. 
 God and the Law, by diners ancient and late Charters, which the Kings and Princes of this Nation, in their grace and favour have granted to the City of  London  (which they made and called their  Chamber ) have armed your Lordship with  Power  to do great things: if you exercise it with your  Parts,  no Garisons either of  schisme  or  sinne,  can long hold out in this City. 
 In this great accomplishment I need not prompt your Lordship what to do, I doubt not but you will make it  your study, your care, your duty,  to purge this City from that accursed and execrable sinne of Sacriledge, by causing the maws of such guilty persons (like the belly of  Ionahs  whale) to disgorge the law full patrimony of the Church; that the blessing of him that was ready to perish, may come upon you, and that you may cause the hearts of the poor Ministers of  London  to sing for joy; that your daies may be multiplied as the sand, and when they expire, that God may then make you to die in your nest, leaving a blessed memorial behinde you. 
 It was the praise of  Constantine  the Great, to be called the Advocate of Gods Church, which be thought a greater glory to him, then to be Emperour of the whole world. And let it be a greater Honour to the great Lord Major of  London  (for so hath bis Office made him) to be accounted the Churches Advocate, in helping the Ministers of  London  to their just Patrimony, then to be Governour in Chief of that great City; which Honour, let it be the portion and inheritance of your Lordship, and of your vertuous Successours for ever; So prayeth he that maketh it his utmost ambition, to be to your Lordship and to that whole City, an 
 Avowed obliged servant,  . 

