
 
 To the most Honorable, The High Court of Parliament assembled. 
 My Lords, 
 AS theres a  Time for every thing under the Sun,  and if ever for being abrupt and brief in, it is  NOW,  when  Time  thus precious with your Lordships; So under the Sun since there is nothing but a supernatural course to be taken, touching the  Cure  of such unnatural conditioned  Times:  The Almighty his  Word  the onely  Balm  and  Soveraign  Remedy when ye have tryed all: If any therefore do amiss and miscarry  Sealed with the Lord  Brooks  blood, immediately after slain about Candlemas, 1642.  of you, blame your selves none but the  Parliament:  For I shall of no little  Burthen  discharge my self here, who can but say and tell you: a receipt
 
I have of such rare operation and vertue given me, that within few days it shal bring him again to Himself, I mean the  KING,  after absent so long from his  Parliament;  whose Character if ye please to observe, this is his: 
 He that no Chains could binde him,  Mark Evangelist the 5.)  That had been often bound with fetters and Chains   Which beside his unfaithfulness, includes his imprisonment, and what ensues, as appears, who besought not tormented to be before his time, as though the time had been foretold him.   pluckt assunder by him, and the fetters broken in pieces; neither could by any man be tamed;  as much to say,  neither  Oath,  nor  word,  or  Promise  availing, or any Reason of force to perswade with him,  as the Holy Ghosts speaking plain; by that adjuring in  Gods Name,  and by asking his  name  too,  saying,  LEGION,  for they
 
were many,  who spake not with the least: Nevertheless, his great words not more fierce then fearful of the  Lords presence;  This man wounding himself thus, bidden,  Go home to his   Who went to the Scots, as not marvelled at a little.   friends. 
 And thus have made tender unto your Lordships of my service, whether or no ye accept thereof, for to bring his Majesty to you,  sitting as afore time cloathed, &c.  and doing withal what ye shall ask or desire. 
 As for the Cavaliers, what they shall do all of them, even crave a Pass hereby to take Shipping for the  Low-Countreys  and  Germany,  to be gone away; the  Boors  will entertain them willingly: St.  Matth.  8. gives notice of two,  so exceeding fierce that none might pass by that way;  to wit,
 
that Dutch Duke and his Brother,  Though had six moneths liberty to stay yet upon pain of death were commanded to depart within ten days.  those possessed Princes, to return also without delay Home again, beyond Sea. 
 1642. The 3. of  January. In which fatal moneth of Ianuary, both the Archbishop and late King were executed afterward. 
 VVaiting on your  Lordships Commands  ELEANOR. 
 The Holy Ghosts  New-Years-Gift. 
 FINIS. 

