
 
 
 To the Worshipfull
 
 My much Honoured Father  Roger Drake,  Esquire. 
 My Honoured Uncle  Tho. Burnell,  Esquire. 
 
 Worshipfull and much Honoured, 
 I Ts not the desire of Protection (the common Theam of such Epistles) but sence of dutie and the bond of gratitude puts me upon this Inscription. Truth needs no Patron, Errour deserves none. To wave therefore such complements; My designe in this Prologue is a thankfull acknowledgement of that great debt brought upon me by each of you, which I can never satisfie. To the one I owe (under God) my being, and well being; to the other, the dearest Companion of my Life; to both my Name and Posterity. Vnworthy were I either of life or name, should I not endeavour (according to my poore model) to perpetuate their being and memorie, to whom I am an eternal debtour for both. This only were motive enough to extort a publick acknowledgement. But I cannot smother in silence an other Favour (shall I say not inferiour to either of the former? Gods blessing upon poore and unworthy indeavours may make it farre superiour) that in the last great turne of my Life, wherein I seemed unto many a signe and a wonder, by relinquishing that Honourable Profession of Physick, to attend upon an higher Calling (though very mean in the eyes of the World) neither of you did interpose to divert me from that designe, though carnal arguments were not wanting to have made each of you improve your utmost Authoritie for the stifling of such a motion in the very birth. I am not ignorant under what extream contempt and discouragement the Ministery lies at present: Nor can I be so stupid as not to apprehend how my own credit lies at the stake, as if Consciousnes of inabilitie in the practice of Physick made me digresse to the function of the Ministerie. For the answering of which cavil  I  am not very solicitous, but willingly
 in this point lay my credit at their feet who excel in that facultie both at home and abroad, and upon former tryal made, know best what to judge. But certainly had consciousnes of inabilitie diverted me from Phisick,  I  should have had but very poor incouragement to the Ministerie, which as it is far more difficult than Physick or any other Facultie in its own nature, so considering the infinite discouragements both from without and within,  I  had little ground to hope it would prove more easie or advantagious than the practice of Physick, especially since this and other callings gain much credit and profit by faithfullnes and diligence; but the Ministery never looses more with the world than when its exercised with most pains and faithfulnes. For my own part, as the former pompe and splendour of the Clergie did not intice me, so the present outward basenesse thereof doth not discourage me; but silencing all carnal Objections, I desire to be faithfull unto him that hath called me, and so to walk in this waighty imployment, as at lust (through Gods mercy) I may give up a comfortable account; for which I begge your earnest Prayers, and rest 
 From my Study    this  14. of  June.  1648. 
 Your dutifull and loving Son and Nephew, ROGER DRAKE. 

