
 
 
 TO THE HONORABLE THE KNIGHTS, CITIZENS, and BVRGESSES Of the Commons House OF PARLIAMENT. 
 T Is not unknowne to You, Right Noble and Worthy Senators, that the Great and Present Controversie of these Times is about the Church, and Church Government. In the dayes of  Luther, Zuinglius, Calvin, Bucer,  and the rest of those Worthies, the controversie of that age, was concerning
 
the Sacrament of the Lords Supper, being generally stiled  Bellum Sacramentarium,  and the Sacramentary Controversie, the contention about it (even amongst the Servants of God) being so sharpe, that it produced most sad and wosull effects. The e was not any one thing more hindred  Melch. Adam. vita Oecolamp. pag. 53. Melch. Adam vit Bucer p. 213. Melch. Ad. vit Tosan. pag. 702. Melc. Ad vita Brent. pag 441.  the cause of God, or the free passage of the Word, or the progresse of the worke of God begun in the Church then this. This weakened and wounded the Protestant party, their weapons being turned each against other, this made them a gratefull spectacle to their enemies, this strengthened the Popish side, they placing more confidence in their cause by these differences than in all other wayes besides. This Sacramentarie controversie kindled such a fire in many Reformed Churches, that it even burnt them up, and turned them much a side from that true edification which is in Christ, and in the practise of godlinesse: And hath proved such a lasting fire, that it is not quenched till this day (although those Churches have had sword, famine, and Pestilence, to put it out.) Now in our dayes in this Kingdome, the chiefe question is about the Church and the discipline of the Church, and our Controversie may fitly be tearmed the Disciplinary Controversie, which however it differs from the Sacramentary  Quid? nonne vident dissidia nostra esse amicorum dispendia, hostium compendia, & publica irae divinae incendia.  in the subject matter, yet it is too like it in the manner, & way of it, being likely to bring forth as sad births and fruites as did that? What? Is it not so, that we do see already (that I may speake with  Hierome)  that our differences about the Church
 
and Discipline are the losse of friends, the gaine  Junius Bi enu. Epist. land Has.  of enemies, and the publicke flames of Divine wrath? The great differences in this Kingdome about the Church and Discipline, are one of the saddest and greatest symptomes of Gods displeasure against us. These contentions and opinions make us forget the proper causes of God, and that maine building up of one another, which is in faith and love, so crastily doth that old Serpent  Adeo vetera ie hic antiqu s d aco imprudentiae nostrae ne vit illudere.  know how to delude our ignorance; (as  Iurius  speakes upon a like case.) Oh there is such a fire kindled in this Kingdome about these points, that unlesse the Lord looke downe from Heaven, and graciously be pleased to quench it timely, it may hazzard the burning and consuming all. Now it is the duty of all the Sonnes of  Sion  to endeavour in their places, the putting out this fire, before it goe too farre, as by povring out buckets of teares and prayers before the Lord, so by all other good wayes, but especially of the Ministers of the Gospell by all meane, both by themselves and by stirring up of others to doe it. The serious consideration of which hath stirred up in me strong resolutions, to lay out my selfe (according to that measure of the gist of Christ bestowed upon me) for the healing of this schisme, and quenching this fire. Now the first borne of this kind (though not the first conceived) is this present Treatise against  Independant Government,  and the  Toleration  of it, which I here humbly present to this Honourable House, submitting it to your grave Judgements, and serious Considerations,
 
humbly desiring your Acceptance of it: Now the Reasons moving me to take this boldnesse, to Dedicate this Booke to your Honours, are these. First, that great and generall liberty you grant of free accesse to your Honourable House, unto all rankes of persons, in this Kingdome, both by Petitions and Bookes. Secondly, that hereby I might take an occasion to testifie my humble duty and thankefullnesse unto, together with my high thoughts and estimation of this Honourable House for all the Indefatigable paines and care bestowed on the Publicke; Seeing that by You (under God, and the Kings most Excellent Majesty) I, and hundreds of my Brethren, enjoy so great quietnesse and freedome in our Ministeries, Estates, Persons, (after so great a storme) and that very worthy deeds are done, both to us, and to this Nation by your Providence, we accept it alwayes, and in all places, most Noble Patriots, with all thankfullnesse, and here I offer to you the first fruites of my labours, as a lasting Monument of Gratitude. Thirdly, that by presenting it to You, both my selfe and Booke might here take Sanctuary, and have your Protection against the many Calumnies and Reproaches which will be cast upon us from that spirit of Separation. Neither flye I to this Honourable House, as if I were conscious to my selfe of any crimes or just grounds of such revilings (for had I not Innocency and Integrity in my actions, and intentions, I durst not present this Booke to this Just and Honourable House, as knowing well
 
you are a refuge onely for Innocent and oppressed persons, and persons who seeke the Publicke good) Or, as if I were not fore-armed to beare them; I know whom I serve in this worke, and  Quisquis volens detrabir fama meae, iste nob  addit mercedi meae. Augustirus Regium est male audire cum bene feceris.  that therefore, whoever doth willingly detract from my name, doth but adde to my reward; I know also tis a Royall priviledge for a man to beare ill when he hath done well, and I have long agoe given my backe to the smiters, and by the grace of Christ hope to beare all calumnies with much quietnesse of spirit, having in part learned that lesson to goe through bad report (even amongst good men) as well as amongst evill men, and to be counted an enemy (as  Paul  was) for telling the Truth; but I therefore present it to your Honours, and put it under your shadow, that so your Countenance and Acceptance of it (according as you finde it) may counter-ballance and weigh downe with all sorts of men, the calumnies and censures cast upon it, to hinder that good intended by it, and may the more commend the Worke to make it take with many for their satisfaction. Fourthly, I take this boldnesse, that so I might have an opportunity, to move and stirre you up, most Noble Worthies, to put to your hands for the earely and timely compounding of this great Controversie about the Church, and Church Government: When fires are begun in great Cities and Townes, or Tumults raised, the Fathers of Families, and the Citizens run to the Magistrates and Governours to acquaint them with the case, and to desire their helpe, who having
 
power to command both Men, Armes, Waters, Engines, buckets from every quarter, the fire is quickely out, and the peace setled. Now be pleased to suffer me to mind you of that which few or none doe, namely of our danger from errors on the right hand, the growing and spreading evill of this present time. Every one minds you by Petitions, Sermous, Bookes, concerning the Reformation of this Church, in Government, Ministery, Ceremonies, and worship; and God forbid that a word should ever fall from my mouth, or my pen draw a line, to call you off from it. Goe on strongly and fully in the worke of Reformation to purge this Church thorowly, and purely to take away all our drosse and tinne; cast out of the way all stumbling blocks, & gather out all things that offend, let nothing be left to hurt or to destroy in Gods holy mountaine; Break downe all Images and Crucifixes, throw downe all Altars, remove the High Places, breake to peeces the brazen Serpents, which have beene so abused to Idolatry and superstition, put out the unpreaching and scandalous Ministers, take a course for setting up good Pastors and Ministers in every Congregation, and in your great Wisdomes, and zeale be pleased to consider of wayes to provide oyle for al the Lampes of the Sanctuary; Goe on Comfortably (for God is with you, and the Ministers with sounding Trumpets of Ministery of Word and Prayer; and the people of God with you, covering you all over with earnest prayers, and and teares, as also with praises to God
 
for you) and be pleased to remember not to doe the worke of God by halves, or negligently. Perfect and thorow Reformation, will be your praise both with God and all good men, at home and abroad; and your zeale may provoke other Kingdomes, and States, and many will arise up and call you blessed, for the good Pastors, and pure Ordinances that they shall enjoy. Tis the blemish of some of the good Kings that were reformers, as  Asa  and  Iehosaphat;  But neverthelesse  2 King. c. ult. v. 43. 2 Chron. 15. v. 17. 2 King 18. v. 4.  the high places were not taken away. It was the praise of other Kings, that they were taken away, as of King  Hezekiah.  Perfect Reformation takes away all possibility and hopes from men, of bringing things backe againe; but an imperfect leaves both a ground-worke, and faire possibility upon any advantage or opportunity to returne:  Theodoret in  his  Eccle. historie  relates that  Theodosius  that most faithfull Emperor, being fully set  Theod. hist. Eccle. l. 5. cap. 20.  to overthrow the errors of the Gentiles, he made Lawes, by which he commanded that the Temples of the Images should be puld downe.  Constantine  the great, with some other Emperours, who succeeded  Constantine,  forbad all Sacrifices and worships to the heathen gods, and their Images, and forbad any to come to their temples, but they did not demolish the temples & places wherin they were worshipped; so that  Iulian  and  Valens,  Emperours who came after, did renew the impiety of the Gentiles, so that fire was kindled againe upon the Altars, and Sacrifices were offered to the Images: All which things when  Theodosius 
 
understood for certaine, hee did not onely shut up the Idols houses, forbidding all to come to the Temples, but he did extirpate them by the rootes, and tooke care to have them buried in eternall oblivion. It was the saying of  Zisca  the famous leader of the  Thaborites,  That the very nests of the Storkes are to be puld downe, lest  Diruendi sunt etiam ipsi ciconiarum nidi ne redeant. Lavat. in Deurer.  they returne againe. And may it please this Honorable House to purge us thoroughly, and the rather for this, because the more perfect our Reformation is, according to the will of God, you shall by this lay the better and surer ground-worke, for healing and composing the great schisme, and divisions risen about the Church, and Church Government. But amidst all your care and paines in this kinde, I beseech you cast an eye upon the errors and evills of the other hand, as Anabaptisme, Brownisme, &c. and be pleased to take into your serious considerations the meanes and wayes how to hinder their growth, and so much the rather, in regard there is not now in this Kingdome (things standing as they doe) so much danger of errors on the left hand. Popery, superstition, prophanenesse, have beene so discountenanced of late, so discovered, and their nakednesse laid so open, as that Altars, Images, pressing of Ceremonies, and prophane Ministers are falling of themselves. Satan for this time hath even done with errors on the left hand, and their time is going out, growing like an Almanacke out of date. Any man who hath but halfe an Eye in his head,
 
and observes the course of things may see that errors on the right hand are now comming on the stage to take their turne also and to act their part; the Devill seeing he cannot effect his ends in the former wayes he went, he will now try others, as  Theodoret  speaks in the case of  Nestorius,  that Satan  Theod. Heret. Fab. lib. 4. de Nest.  gave over moving against the Church by outward & manifest enemies, but came under the show of the Orthodox, and in the habit of great strictnesse bewitching many & drawing the injudicious common people to a desire after him. Satan is now transforming himselfe from an Angell of darknesse into an Angell of light, and though hee must use other kind of instruments, and goe other waies, yet tis to bring about the same things, the upholding of his kingdome and the hindring of Gods, so that he will now labour to doe that by correcting and building up, which hee did before by persecuting and pulling downe (as  Luther  speakes.) In a word plainly to expresse my meaning, one extremitie (as many examples both antient and moderne testifie)  Nestorius  speaking against the personall union of the divine and humane nature of Christ:  Extiches  fell into an error contrary, confounding the natures, that he would have the humane nature so swallowed up by the immensitie of the divine nature in Christ, that there was not two natures in Christ, but one onely, to wit, the divine nature,  Evag. lib. 1. cap.  9. So  Ofiander  broaching that error, that Christ was our mediatour only according to the divine nature,  Stancarus  opposing that fell into another error that Christ was mediator only according to the humane  Schlussels de Stancar. pag.  37. so  Flacius Illyricus  opposing  Strigelius  who made originall sinne to be but a light kind of accident, he to aggravate the monstruousnesse of originall sinne, fell into that errour, that originall sinne was the substance of a man,  Schlussels de secta Manic: pag.  4.  hath caused another, the Tyrannie of Episcopall government in some Bishops hath brought forth the Democracie and Independencie, the violent pressing of some pretended orders hath set many against all
 
order, and Satan seing hee cannot doe as he did, the times not favouring those things, they being growne old, and even antiquated that every man is ready to hisse at them, hee now goes about by other waies, and if he can but effect what he is in a faire way for and what he hath begun in a great measure, he hath enough. Tis reported of the Fish called  Polypus petrae cui adhaesit colorem referens. Nazianz: de se ipso.   Polypus,  that it will be of the colour of that stone to which it cleaves, whether white or blacke, or any other: so will Satan be of that colour and that temper just that the men are of with whom he deales, and the times are of. (For besides this that Satan hath more wayes to kill Soules and advance his designes then one, as  Oreg. Naz ad episcop.  when he cannot have his will by persecution, then he will attempt it by schisme and sowing division amongst ministers (as  Nazianzen  sheweth:) Satan will in time bring about the same things though in another way, for Independancie will bring againe what now it would cast out, namely libertinisme, prophanenesse, errors, and will by some removes bring many men to be of no religion at all. Be pleased most worthy Senators to let me tell you that the greatest sort of erroneous spirits with all unstable and wanton witted men, will be much for Independant Government and Tolerations, and be to their uttermost against Synods & setled Government: Socinians, Arminians, Anabaptists, Separatists, how different soever in other principles, yet will agree in this; Independancie will both breed them, and being bred will foster them. And however in many men
 
who bee principall actors in this way of Independancie, the dangers and evills may not so appeare for the present, there being many things in most of the Ministers lovely, which the more commends this way, yet wise men, such as this Honourable house consists of, looke upon things and judge of them not onely as they are for the present, but as they may be hereafter, and accordingly setle things; that being the great principle Legislators goe by, to presume that men may degenerate, and things will be abused, and therefore so to provide that they may not. All errors commonly be best at first, most modest then, and the first Authors of errors be commonly the best and fairest. Ecclesiasticall History mentions that the  Novatian  errors did more hurt in the fourth Centurie then in the third wherein it was first broached. The followers of  Novatus  did adde many other errors to his, as  Theodoret  relates.  Arminius  was more candid, and lesse erroneous then his  Theod. lib. 3. Haeret: Fabul. Parvus error in initio fit magnus in fine, negligenda non sunt parva initia, ex quibus paulatim majores fiunt accessiones.  followers, they having much improved the points, as some Divines have shewed. Be pleased therefore to give me leave to stirre you up to lay these schismes and divisions to heart, (the divisions of  Reuben  being great thoughts of heart) and in your great wisedomes early to find out meanes and remedies to heale the great rents about the Church and Church Government, and to hinder the further increase of this way: God hath called you together, and continued you for this worke amongst the rest; Noble Patriots doe your parts, and what in you lyes to conclude of some speedy
 
way and course for setling these differences. Tis the praise of  Cyprian  and  Cornelius  that by the helpe of a Councell they did indeavour timely to suppresse the errors of  Novatus.  And in the meane while till Church Government be setled, whether it be not necessary to provide by some meanes against the spreading of this sect, and the meetings of these separated Assemblies, I leave it to your great wisedomes to consider, lest otherwise wee be overgrowne with Anabaptisme, Brownisme and such like. And I humbly crave leave to tell you, that delayes in this kind will prove very dangerous, many falling to that way daily, and others by continuance will be so accustomed to it, that it will be harder to regaine them: Besides the Independants ly at the catch and advantage of delaies, all their hopes and strength standing in this, that it will be long before there be a Synod, or before the Church Government be setled, hoping that in the interim whilst things stand betweene two, and are unsetled, they may both gather and increase their Churches, and make their party more considerable; and there is just ground to thinke they are not wanting to endeavour by some instruments how to effect it: The hand of  Ioab  is sometimes where tis not dreamt of. I could present this Honourable House with a sad relation of the state of things both in the City and Countrey in respect of errors on the right hand, as also bespeake You by the teares & feares of all the godly & painfull Ministers of this Church of  England:  But I know
 
I speake to the wise, and to them who are deeply sensible; and tis time for me to take off my hand lest the porch be too large for the house. Now the good will of him that dwelt in the bush rest upon your heads; The Lord hide you from the counsells and plots of wicked men, and from the raging diseases of the time, making you more and more his hidden ones; He make you more and more his chosen & sanctified ones to fulfill all his mind and to doe his whole worke both against all heresie and schisme, both errors on the left hand and right; Hee double and treble upon you all that spirit of wisedome, counsell, might, and unanimitie, which former Parliaments ever had. The Lord set your feet upon a rock, and establish your goings; He give you an unwearied spirit to goe on without fainting, till there be a perfect setling of peace in Church and Common-wealth, and till the worke of reformation so happily begun be finished. And the Lord recompence into your bosomes seven-fold in blessings both temporall, spirituall, and eternall, all your worke and labour of love which yee have shewed towards his name, and towards this Kingdome. And so humbly laying my selfe, and these poore endeavours at your feet, I rest 
 Your Honours most devoted servant Thomas Edwards. 

