
 
 
 To the Right Honorable, ISAAC
PENNINGTON Lord Major of the
City of  London,  together with the Right
Worshipfull the Sheriffes, and Aldermen of
the same City. 
 SIRS, 
 M Ay it please you,  Saul  that great Persecutor
of the new beginning Church of
Christ, that enemy who breathed out
threatnings and slaughter against the disciples
of the Lord, after he was cast down from his
horse, and his pride was quelled by the might and
power of Christ, he was by the Lords order committed
to the care of  Ananias, Acts  9. 11. True it is,
 Ananias  answered the Lord, that he was jealous and
fearefull of  Saul,  because he had heard by many,
how much evill he had done to the Saints at  Jerusalem, 
13.  v.  But the Lord replyed no more unto him,
but that he should not feare nor mistrust him, because
he had turned his heart, and made him a chosen
 
vessell to beare his name before the  Gentiles,  and
Kings, and children of  Israel,  & that he would teach
him how great things he should suffer for his names
sake. Let it please your Honour and Worships to
behold here my own case deciphered; for if  Saul  persecuted
the Church of Christ; I my selfe have persecuted
the same Church, by opposing the doctrin of
it, by preaching and teaching contrary to it, by procuring
to seduce soules from it, by writing against
it. But now it hath pleased that mighty and powerfull
Lord; against whom there is no resistance, to
cast me down upon the ground, to quell my pride,
to lighten me round about with the beames and
light of his mercies, to make me know how hard a
thing it is to kicke against the will & calling of God,
and with trembling and feare to make me say,  Lord
what wilt thou have me to do?  If  Saul  was sent to  Damascus 
to  Ananias,  a chiefe and zealous follower of
Christ, that by him he might be protected from the
 Jews  and enemies of the Lord, who doubtles hearing
of his change and conversion would have cruelly
torne and slaughtered him if they could have found
him. So I my selfe by a secret and inward order,
which I have found by God delivered to my Soule,
have judged it meet and fit to search out in this City
some zealous  Ananias,  some religious follower of
Christs pure doctrin, that I may be safely sheltered &
 
protected from the violent attēpts of the Lords enemies
the Papists, who I know will endeavour to do
me all the mischief they can. Therfore let it please
your Honor and W ps . who are well known to be as
 Ananias  in  Damascus,  zealous and truly religious followers
of Christs own doctrin, and favorers of the
pure Word of the Lord, to cast your eyes upon me a
new converted  Saul,  to shelter and protect me from
those that plot my mischief. O when surest they are
to hinder my perseverance in the truth, by plotting
and studying my destruction, let them find me hovering
under the wings of your protection. O feare
not! nor say what  Ananias  said,  I have heard by many
of this man, how much evill he hath done to thy Saints,  but
praise the work of the Lord in me, who hath opened
now my eyes, who hath brought me now out of  Babylon, 
who hath made me confesse my sins and iniquities
with a sorrowfull and contrite heart. And as
it pleased the Lord to shew  Saul,  as soon as he was
converted how great things he should suffer for his
names sake; even so be you confident, as I my self am
that this my calling & conversion is purely & meerly
from above and from the Lord; from whom I
have receiv'd this testimony, that he hath shewed me
already how great things I must suffer for his names
sake; for I must for him suffer many injuries and calumniations
from the Papists, I must suffer the losse
 
of all my kinred, I must suffer the losse of that maintenance,
which I was wont to receive from them, I
must suffer want and poverty. But for whom? For
the Lords sake; for the teaching and preaching the
precise rule of the Word of the Lord, for abjuring all
 Popish  errors, for renouncing all supertitions, for abhorring
all idolatries. Let these my sufferings serve
to your Honor and Worships for a true testimony of
my conversion; let these my sufferings remove from
you all feares and jealousies of my perseverance, that
thus with your favorable protectiō I may rejoyce in
my calling, I may freely teach the pure Word of the
Lord, I may oppose all  Antichristian  doctrin, and by
my example may draw many wandring soules to the
true Faith & Church of Christ. And I shall alwayes
pray to the Lord to keep your Honor and Worships
in grace, and that you may so rule & govern this City
by your conscionable and upright actions before
God and men, that you may truly here be called zelotes
of the Honour of the Lord, and afterwards you
may have your seats above in the triumphant City
of  Jerusalem. 
 Your Hon. and Wor. humble and faithfull servant, in
the things of God, and Christ.
THOMAS GAGE. 

