
 
 TO THE
RIGHT HONOURABLE HOUSE
OF
PEERS
Assembled in
PARLIAMENT. 
 Right Honourable, 
 T HE  Occasion  of your appointing
this  Sermon  to be preached, The weightinesse of this work is declared in the Sermon following  pag.  32, 34.   was a 
Matter  of no small  moment.  It is
thus expressed in Your own Order: 
A day appointed to be observed
by both Houses of PARLIAMENT,
for publike Humiliation,
and to seek God earnestly for a Blessing upon the
Treaty. 
 The  End  of this  Treaty,  is to close up and heal the
breaches of this Land. 
 A pious End! 
 So great is the  Breach,  as it giveth great and just
cause of deep  Humiliation,  I may in this case apply
 
the  Prophets lamentation  for  Jerusalem ( Lament.  2.
13.)  unto  England. What thing shall I take to witnesse
for thee? What thing shall I liken to thee,
 O England?  For thy Breach is great, like the
Sea. 
 Not without cause therefore have You set apart this day for
publike Humiliation. The grounds of this difficulty are set down, p. 34, 35  Virg.  AEn. lib. 6. 
 To make up this  Breach  is a  matter  of  great difficulty. 
 Hic labor, hoc opus est— 
 It is beyond the wit and power of man to do it. 
 Good reason therefore there was to appoint the day of  Humilation 
to be a day also  to seek God earnestly for a blessing
upon the Treaty. 
 If the  breach  be not stopped by a  Treaty,  by what may it
be stopped? 
 Can it be hoped that it should be done by sword? The Law
is dumb while the Sword is drawn. Silent leges in¦ter arma.  Cic  pre  Milon. 
 Will Conquerours yeeld to an Accommodation? Having
the staff in their own hands, Will they not stand upon their
own terms? 
 By force men may for a time be kept in awe. Malus est cust s diuturnitatis, metus. Cic. Offic l. 2.  But that
AWE is no good keeper of a lasting peace. 
 Right Honourable,  It will be Your Wisdome and
Glory, Hominis gratia Numinis reverentia non est violenda.  to help on this  Treaty, Usque ad aras:  so farre
as may stand with piety and verity: with safety and security
of Church and State. 
 That under GOD, Ye may be happy instruments hereof,
two things are requisite, both on  Your  own behalfe
and also on the behalfe of all the  People  of this
 Land,  whom a good issue of the  Treaty  doth concern. 
 
1.  Sound  Repentance. 
 2.  Hearty  Praier. 
 Our sinnes, our sinnes have made the breach. Our 
Repentance  must make to the repairing of the breach.  The
people repented them for Benjamin, because the
LORD had made a breach in the tribes of Israel,
 Judg.  21. 15. 
 Their Cause was just, De victoria sibi non tantum grotulantur, quam de clade tribus Israeleticae conqueruntur.  yet they  repented  when they saw
how great the  breach  was. They did not so much glorie
in their victory, as grieve for the destruction of a Tribe
in Israel. 
 And is not the  breach  made among us a great  breach? Wolph.  Serm. 91. in  Judg. 21. 
Surely it is  great like the Sea. Who can heal thee,  O
England? 
 He, Quise opponit irae Dei saevienti.  Hier.  Com. in  Esa.  58.   and He only, who may most properly be called,  The
repairer of the breach.  To him therefore let us pray
and say,  O GOD, thou hast cast us off: thou hast scattered
us: Frustra operarius omnia moliretur extrinsecus, nisi Creator intrinsecus latenter operaretur,  &c.  thou hast been displeased: O turn thy self to
us again. Thou hast made the earth to tremble: Thou
hast broken it. Heal the breaches thereof, for it shaketh. 
 All outward endeavours of workmen will be in vain, unless
the Creatour doe also inwardly work. Noveritis vos plus proficere orationibus quam exhortationibus.  Aug  de Bon. vid. c. 18.  Know for certain, that
more may be done by praiers to GOD, then by perswasions
with men. 
 My Lords,  It concerneth You most of all to take care
of this  Matter:  for the LORD hath made You, together
with the  Honourable House of Commons,  Pillars to support
this State. 
 Mention is made of two Pillars which  Salomon  made in
the Temple:  sunt propria nomina Alterū derivatur   persecit Inde   rectum.  The one whereof he called    Jachin:  and the
other    Boaz. 
 
Those two words are used as proper names. The former importeth,
 straitnes.  The later,  strength. 
 If Pillars whereon Edifices doe rest be not as  Jachin  and
 Boaz, Alterum à   obfirmavit. Inde   robur.   streight  and  strong,  they cannot be serviceable.
If they be not streight, but crooked, the building resting on
them, may sway aside. If they be not strong, but weak, and
the burden resting on them, heavy, they may fail, and the building
fall. 
 Integrity  and  magnanimity  will do much for quieting our
present distractions. 
 The LORD pour upon you the spirit of  Counsel  and
 Courage. 
 My Lords,  I am 
 Your humble Servant 
and hearty Oratour 
William Gouge. 
 Blackfriers London 
 19. Sept. 1648. 

