
 
 
 TO THE
HONOVRABLE HOVSE
of COMMONS assembled
in PARLIAMENT. 
 Most worthy Patriots, 
 T HE Wise-man among his many
approved  Proverbes, Prov  25 11.   Iuxta modus suos. Merc. Quibus modia dici debet  V t.  Tempore, suo.  . 
 hath this choyce one,  A
word spoaken upon his
wheeles ( so runnes the
Originall, or  set upon his
measures,  that is, as our English not unfitly
hath translated it,  fitly spoken) A word
fitly spoken, is the like Apples of Gold in picutres
 
of silver;  pretious and pleasant. Pretious,
as  golden Apples:  pleasant  as yellow
Gold curiously wrought and artificially wrethed
in white Silver. 
 This  Proverbe  turned my minde to thinke
of some seasonable Theame, after notice was
given me, that by your Order, which to mee
is a Law, I was deputed to preach before
your Honourable Assembly. And I thinke I
have hit upon a fit Subject, were I fit and able
to handle it as it is meet to be handled in such an Assembly. 
 It is the Patterne of a good Patriot. 
 A point pertinent in  Generall  and  Particular. 
 In  Generall,  a Patterne or Example registred
and approoved in Sacred Scripture,
shews 
 1. What is the good and acceptable will of God. 
 2. Si inveniuntur exempla quae nos per rectan ducunt viam, sequen. da sunt.  Hier.  ad celant.  What in like case others are bound to doe. 
 3. Excitamur in ipem, qua nos etiam ita posse vivere, qui homines sum ex eo quod aliqui homines ita vixerunt, minimè desperamus.  Aug  de Trin. l. 8. c. 9.  What may be done by such as will thorowly
set themselves to it. 
 4. VVhat, when it is so done, may be pleaded
in an humble-self-denying manner before God. 
 
In  Particular  this Example of  Nehemiah 
shewes, 
 1. VVho is a good Patriot. 
 2. How he ought to behave himselfe. 
 3.   Plut  de Lib instit.  VVhat difficulties and dangers attend him. 
 4. VVhat opposition and contradiction hee is
like to meet with. 
 5. VVhat resolutions become him. 
 6. On whom his confidence is to be placed. 
 Our times are in many things not much unlike to
the time wherein  Nehemiah  came to  Jerusalem. 
 Grievances in State. 
 Corruptions in Church. 
 He did as much as in him lay (and that indeed
was very much) for redressing of the one, and removing
of the other. 
 His patterne is not onely an  Instruction,  to
teach what is to be done: or an  Incitation  to stir
up such as know what is to be done: but also a  Iustification 
and  Approbation  of such as doe as
he did. 
 And they may looke for such an end,  &c. Ioseph An iq. Iul. l. 11. c. 5.   as  Iosephus
 testifies that  Nehemiah  had. His testimony
is this,  When  Nehemiah  had done most
 
magnificently many good things worthy of
praise, being an old man he died, and lest
behind him the name of a gracious, just and
bountifull man toward his owne Nation. 
 The Lord encline our great Kings heart to you, as
he did the heart of  Nehemiahs  King to him, and
so worke by you, as he did by him: that every of
you may with such confidence say to your God, as he
did to his,  Thinke on me, my GOD for good, 
according  to all that I have done for this People. 
This is, this shall be, the prayer of 
 Your daily Oratour 
 William Gouge. 

