
 
 
 TO THE HONOVRABLE HOVSE OF COMMONS Now assembled in PARLIAMENT. 
 Right Honourable; 
 D Aniels  Prophecie concernes the  Jewes Dan. 1 . 1. Thy people.   in  Hypothesi,  the whole Church of God in  Thesi,  for  no Scripture is of private interpretation,  saith 2 Pet. 1. 20. 1 Cor. 10. 11.  .   S.  Peter,  and  These things hapned to them as ensamples,  saith S.  Paul. 
 To them it speaketh two things; 
 1.  Their  Calamities  under the foure great  Monarchies  now almost at an end. 
 2.  Their  Consolation afterwards,  and now approaching. 
 To us it speaketh two things more; 
 1.  Our  Hope,  living in dayes of trouble, but withall, of delivery; it is not a  Tympany,  but Dan. 1 . 1.   a  Child,  that the Churches of the Saints goe withall, if they stick  long in the place of birth,  it Hose. 1 ▪  
 
 is  because they are foolish;  but at length a safe deliverance is promised, the man-child of Reformation shall be borne, and Heaven and earth shall cry  grace grace unto it. Zech. 4. 7. 
 2.  Our  Help, ( for  hope deferred maketh the Prov. 1 . 12.  heart sick,)  in this booke two ways it is afforded. 
 First, From the  History  of it, See here how the Church, though it be a little and but a despised flock, yet is it of that esteeme with God, that for the Churches sake he wheeles about all the Monarchies of the world; the  Persian  shall dash in peeces the Dan. 2. & 7.  Babylonian,  the  Greekes  the  Persian,  the  Romanes  the  Grecian,  and  the God of Heaven  the  Romane Empire  and them all, and set up the Kingdome of Iesus Christ, that  stone cut cut without hands, which shall become a great mountaine and fill the whole earth. 
 Secondly, From the Prophesie of it, not Humane, but Divine, that sacred Calendar, and great Almanack of Prophesie: the foure Kingdomes of  Daniel,  are not only, an Historicall, but a Propheticall Chronologie of times, measured from the beginning of the  Jewes  captivity till  all the Kingdomes of the world should become the Kingdome of Rev. 11. 15.  our Lord and his Christ;  a course of time, during which, the Church and Nation of the  Iewes
 
 should carry the veile upon their hearts, but afterwards should turne to God, and be raised up from the death of sinne; are turne so strange, a delivery so Dan. 12. 2. Rom. 11. 15.   great, that it is resembled to a  resurrection  from the grave. 
 To this great Calendar of times the Apostles in the new Testament relate, when they call the times of the fourth Kingdome,  the last times,  and the latter times of that Kingdome,  the latter times; (viz.)  the latter part of that last Kingdome (as saith a learned Interpreter:) Goe we then to this M r   Mede  Apost. of latter times,  p.  64, 65, 66.   Propheticall Calendar, we have  the Romane Monarchy  almost at an end, and concerning the  Iewes, ( whose comming in succeedeth their going out) two things foretold. 
 The finall end of  the Turkish Empire ( as learned 1.   men conceive) the only obstacle to those  Kings of M.  Brightman,  and many others. Rev. 16. 12.  the East  as the  Iewes  are call'd, and the last defence of the Beast; whose beginning, was about the yeare 1300. and the addition of 350. (which is the  time, Dan. 12. 7. M.  Brightman, in locum.  times, halfe a time)  doth bring that Turkish tyranny to an end, in the yeare  1650. 
 The beginning of their gratious delivery, this 2.   shall be after a two-fold  epoche. 
 1. The taking away of the daily sacrifice, Dan. 12. 11.   which was wickedly done by  Antiochus,  long before, 
 
 but  de jure  by our Lord Iesus Christ his death, destroying Dan. 8. 10. 11, 24. 25.   all other sacrifices by the sacrifice of himselfe, the fulnesse of all their shadowes, and  defacto  by  Titus Ioseph Antiq.  Vespasian,  who tooke away the place of sacrificing, when he destroyed the Temple. 
 2. The setting up of the abhomination of desolation, ( or which maketh desolate) this was wickedly attempted by the  Iewes  in the dayes of  Iulian the Apostate;  he in contempt of Christ gave licence to the  Iewes  to build their Temple, and renew their Iewish worship, hereupon they tooke up every Tripart. Hist.   stone of the old foundation, but before they laid any new one, they were dispersed by a speciall hand of God. A fearfull earthquake in the night destroyed all their work , a sudden fire consumed all their tooles, and themselves so dispersed that from that time the  Iewish  superstitions did for ever cease.  Cyril Bishop of Ierusalem,  who admonished them of this Prophesie of  Daniel,  but after no disswasion could prevaile, he openly professed, that now the time was come which our Lord fore-told, that  there should not be left one stone upon another. M t. 24. 2. 
 Now understand we this to be the  epoche, Iulians  reign fell out in the yeare 360. to which adde 1290. they make up 1650. the very time formerly designed for the finishing of the  Iewes  dispersion. 
 These things being so, I knew not  (Right Honourable)  a Text speaking more to
 
 You, 
 Vs, 
 Our times, 
  
then what I preached on, and by your Authority have exposed now to more publike view. 
 To you  it speakes by way of  Caution,  that no 1.   spot, nor blot, nor shrinking back be found amongst you, that are  repairers of our breaches, and restorers of pathes to dwell in. 
 To us  it speakes by way of  Crisis,  it discovers the 2.   temper of the sick body of both Church and State under you our great and (under God) only Phisitian, your physick stirs the humours; makes some better, some worse. 
 To our times  it speakes by way of  comfort,  they 3.   are troublesome, but trying times, and after triall, there shall be delivery to those that are  purified, made white, and tried,  but destruction to those that  doe and will doe wickedly,  true wisedome and understanding is hid from them, and reveal'd to the godly wise. Let then a bloody crew fight on, and fill up their measure, and let a foolish people refuse to assist you as they ought, the Lord himself hath said the word,  to you  as to  Cyrus. He is my shepheard, and Isa. 44. 28.  shall performe all my pleasure, even saying to  Ierusalem,  Thou shalt be built, and of the Temple,
 
Thy foundation shall be laid:  and  to them,  the Lord will throw downe his  haile  upon them that Rev. 16.   stand against Reformation, and rend their hearts with indignation and blasphemy; he will goe an end with his worke, though they sweare and storme, till he have utterly consumed them from the face of the earth.  Perfect is the work of God,  and (as the Lord Deut. 32. 4.   spake concerning  Eli) when he begins, he will also 1 Sam. 3. 12.  make an end. 
 Thus craving your pardon, and (which is more) your acceptance, as you have my faith, so shall you have my prayers, that what  Caesar  once said of  Rome, He found it brick, but left it marble, Romam latericiam inveni, marmorea  relinquo.   may much more Honourably be said of you, you found our Church and State  Atheisticall, Prelaticall,  you leave  the beames of our house Cedar, Cant. 1. 17.  Plin.  l. 43.  c.  5 & 16.  c.  41.  and our galleries firre;  famous for durablenesse, acceptable for sweetnesse; by laying in the walls of the Church such solid and eternall truths of God as may hold out instead of  Socinianisme, Arminianisme,  and many moe; and by setting up such  Worship,  and  Discipline,  and  Governement,  as may keepe off wind and weather, that Gods people may walke hand in hand together, as in galleries of firre. 
 Your Honours, both at the throne of grace, and in the worke of Christ▪ STANLEY GOWER▪ 

