
 
 
 TO THE Honourable House of COMMONS Assembled in PARLIAMENT. 
 W Hen the World was shaken by  Adams  sinne, God secur'd it by the Promiseof his Son▪  Gen. 5.  When  Canaan  was distressed by the Midianites, he sent  Gideon  to save  Israel, Iudg. 6.  Now  England  is distracted, and her foundations out of course, He hath rays'd up  you,  the  Worthies  of our  Israel,  to repaire her breaches, and settle her foundations; we acknowledge the infinite mercy of God to raise you up at such a time, and for such designes. It's great hard work to save Kingdomes: but Honourable, whoever would not save a Kingdome, is no more worthy to live in it, then the Man seekes the destruction thereof. Wicked men will venture all to get or ruine Kingdomes, and shall not good men venture as farre to save Kingdomes? Had men publique
 
spirits they would doe it. Heathens have so minded the publique, as that they have forgot themselves.  Publius Decius  the Romane Army  Valex maxim, l. 5. c.  553. being brought low, rusht into the midst of the enemies, demanded  safety  for his  Country, Death  for  himselfe;  and so occasioned an unexpected Ʋictory.  Luc. Alvanius  his Wife and Children, being    Dein, lib.  1.  c.  11. in the VVagon, escaping for their lives in a common Calamity; commands them downe, and takes up the Vestall Ʋirgins, who had the care of their holy things: he was  proprior publicae Religioni quam privatae charitati,  the Publiquenesse of his spirit caryed him above private interests. VVhere spirits are right set; selfe is much forgotten. Ji's domesticknes of spirit, selvishnesse, which is the great let to Armies, Religions, and Kingdomes good.  Esther  was right when shee said,  if I perish I perish,  she would venture for the publique, and for her God. The  Quicunque occupati sunt negotijs reipublicae debent hoc ipsum facere propter Deum Rabbi Gamel. in Paul. Fagio Capit. patrum. Rabbins  give a good lesson for Men in publiqne employment, They must doe their worke  propter Deum  Then neither difficultie of worke, disappoinment in event, nor ingratitude in People, will disturbe the spirits of men. Then nothing will be done against the Kingdome of Christ, evidence of truth, or liberty of Conscience; If men be publique and act
 
for God they are  Eshbaals, Ruling lights;  if private and selvish, they will be  Ishbosheths  men of shame. The  Axe  is at the root of our Tree, wee hope your spirits are all unselvished, that none are now unpublique; Publiquenesse of dangers calls for publiquenesse of spirits; Eminency of danger for speedinesse of helpe. VVhen  Ierusalem  was brought low,  Asaph  cryed to God for speedy prevention,  Psalm. 79. 8. England, Ireland  are brought low, the  Asaphs  cry to God, and cry to you also for speedy prevention. There be ill spirits abroad which teare us, which cast us into the Fire and water to destroy us, as the Mans Sonne in the  Mar.  9. 22. Gospell, and we say, Masters if you can doe any thing have compassion on the Kingdome, and help it, help us; keep backe nothing may save a Kingdome, helpe by wayes ordinary, and by wayes extraordinary. You are  Es.  36.  siqua est miserecordia & humanitas extremae nostrae miseriae s ccurrere ne graveris Calvin. Rulers  and our ruine is under your hand; Vote our Resurrection  nomine contradicente,  effect it  quamvis mille repugnent,  and this shall be your  Impresse, Hoc Regnum est vere vestrum.  Yea other Kingdomes shall contribute to your praise, and the Kingdome of Kingdoms be your reward. Bestirre you they are active, who would undoe us. Thinke on the *  Rabbies   Rabbi Shimeon in Paulo Fgio Capit. patrum. words a little altered  Dies brevis, opus multum
 
merces magna, Pater familias urget operarij ne sint pigri.  This Epistle and Sermon had both lay on in the dark, if your authority which commands Persons, Pulpits, Presses, had not brought them forth; accept the fruits of your owne power, and blessed be the Lord for what you have done since you heard what is now presented unto you. The Lord inable you to  perfect all  your  intentions  and  undertakings,  which are for the publique good. 
 The Lord unite you, Watch ever you, fill you with his Spirit, Prosper you,  All  yours, and accomplish  yet  greater things by You, So Prayes▪ 
 Your most Vnworthy Servant, and meanest in the worke of  Christ. 
 WILLIAM GREENHILL. 

