
 
 
 TO THE RIGHT REVEREND FATHER  IN  GOD  BRIAN,  Lord Bishop of  Sarum,  and Tutour to both their Highnesses, The most Illustrious CHARLES the Prince of  VVales,  and the most noble JAMES the Duke of  Yorke,  my most Honoured Lord and Patron. 
 Right Reverend Father in God, 
 Y OVR Lordship hath often times call'd upon me to goe out and  shew the people their Transgressions, and the House of  Iacob  their sinnes. 
 Next to my owne  conscience  I confesse my selfe bound to give your Lordship satisfaction. 
 
To fall foule upon the degenerous and intractable nature of this people cannot answer you, for it doth not me. 
 I doe not say I am not eloquent, and therefore that you  would send by the hand of Him whom you should send.  When I am indeed able for these things, I doubt not to have  Him with my mouth,  because I meane to leave all my selfe out. There was never more provocations for all men to speake then now, when all the mischeife that other ages did but  imagine  are practiced by a Law, and in the meane time the  dumbe Asses are taught to forbid the madnesse of the Prophets. 
 The  Harvest  is confessedly  Great,  but then the  Labourers are not few.  And if while so many are thus excellently imployed about the rest of the Building, some one or other doe as well as he can towards the making good of the Ground worke, I thinke he may be let alone at least. The hopes of the Superstruction¦ly from the assurance of the Foundation I shall give them leave to be  Pillars:  This I am sure is the  Corner-stone,  and  I  need not tell you how rejected,  I  meane it not of all, but of the  Common Builders. 
 
If the Church be an  Arke  he that hath never so little to doe with the Compasse, though he sit still in his place, yet does as much or more then all the other  necessary Noise  in the Ship The Comparison is quit of arrogance, for it holdeth in the  designe,  it is not meant of the  performance. 
 The course  I  have runne here is  Labour  too, and in the same  Vineyard.  And  I  trust my selfe for this, that my accounts will be as well pass't  above,  if  I  reckon upon these paines, the pretence whereof though not so popular, yet is as substantially proficient towards the maine Aedification. 
 I  have principally endeavoured to redeeme my Reader from that slavery, by which  I  have so long sate downe my selfe, in not printing (so neare as  I  could  I  have not) the same things over againe. 
 I  am sure  I  have set downe nothing but what  I  beleive, if more sometimes then  I  well understood,  I  have company enough, and the acknowledgement of an errour is more ease to me, then the committing of it was. 
 Why  I  should make these Addresses to your
 
Lordship there is all the reason in the world; what have  I  but what  I  have received from you? and that which is, would be Nothing of it selfe. Rayes of incidency contract no warmth upon the Earth, unlesse reflected backe upon their originall Sun. 
 My Lord, As once  the Sonnes of the Prophets said unto the Man of God, Behold now the place where we dwell is too streight for us.  We are humbly expecting the last course of  that Iudgement which began at the House of God.  What shall be done to the dry Tree, or  where the sinner will appeare,  is to be left to him to  whom vengeance belongeth. 
 The  Great Genius  of this  Place  must now burne a while like those Subterraneous  Olibian  Lampes under the Earth.  VVe shall see it but  Bernardin. Scarde nius de Priscis civibus Patavin. Lib.  1. not now, we shall behold it but not nigh. 
 Have, salve, sit tibi terra Levis. 
 Abite hinc pessimi fures, Quid vostris vultis cum oculis Emissitiis. 
 Your Lordships most faithfull Servant and Chaplaine.
JOHN GREGORY. 

