
 
 
 TO
THE HONORABLE
HOUSE OF COMMONS,
Assembled in PARLIAMENT. 
 HONORABLE SENATORS; 
 W Hen formerly I have been
moved by friends to preach
before you at the Monthly
 Fast,  I have alwayes declined
it, and earnestly intreated
them not to make the motion; being ready
to say, as  Ausonius  to  Caesar  in another
case,  Non habeo ingenium,  I have not
parts for such a service in such a Presence;
or as  Moses  answered the Lord, Exod 4. 10.   Non sum
 
facundus,  I am not eloquent; for I never
thought my  Oratory  worthy such an  Auditory: 
but when a learned Member of
your House came to me in your name, and
signified your will to have it so, I could not
say as that  Poet  did, Obsequium   esse   Id:  though not  sine subdu ione & sudore.   Caesar sed jussit,
habebo,  as if he had wit at command, but
the  Senate  sending, I resolved, I must obey,
& do as well as I can with Gods assistance. Lips. Ep 
Now having in obedience to your Order,
both preached and printed this plain  Sermon, 
I beseech you take it with all faults,
and connive. This I may say to my comfort,
it was preached in a good day, and we that
then made our Supplications for you, and
with you, found not our prayers and yours
fruitless, 2 Sam. 23. 10.  for the  Lord  wrought a great
Victory  that day; By  Westchesier.  a good incouragement to
you to continue your dayes of Humiliation,
of which you find so good effects. Often may
you heare such Newes from your Forces,
 
that we may enjoy the benefit of your Ordinances
in peace. 
 Worthy  Patriots,  it was joyfull tidings
to us in all parts of the Kingdome, when we
heard for certain, that there should be a
 Parliament,  and that Writs were out for
choosing Knights of the  Shire,  and it was
an augmentation of our joy, when we heard
of a  Triennial Parliament;  that I thought
would be  fraenum  or  flagrum  to all corrupt
men, but when wee understood that
there was an Act for the continuation of this
 Parliament,  we had greater cause of rejoycing,
because by this meanes yee have
opportunity to perfect those things, which
other  Parliaments  could but propound &
begin, being sundry times broken up, before
they could do any considerable service
for their Countrey. God forbid, that that
high Court which is now established by a
law, should ever be dissolved by the sword.
 
 Peace, 2 Chro. 12. 18.   peace be unto you, and to your
Helpers, your God helpeth you.  He
grant, that yee may prosper, and triumph
in his Name and praise, untill yee have
finished the worke which he hath given
you to doe, which is and shall be the
prayer of 
 Westminster,  Octob.  30.
1645. 
 The unworthiest of your
spirituall Servants,
S A: GIBSON. 

