
 
 TO THE HONOVRABLE House of  Commons  assembled in the  Parliament  of  England. 
 I  Could not have such high thoughts of my shallow  cogitations, as to deem them worthy to be produced before such an Auditory, or presented to the publike view: Had not therefore consciousnesse of dutie constrained, I had become an earnest suiter to have been excused: but of actuall obedience I had many, of excuse-pleading I found no president. Your Injunction then made me to aspire to the work which now humble craves your Patronage; and whither should the labours of this kinde runne, but to that honourable Society, which (under Heaven) is the fountain of these gracious opportunities? 
 If willing, no man, I suppose, hath more cause to be large in Apologie then I, having long since had my poore Library totally plundered, and my self not able,  usque hunc diem,  to buy one book of considerable value. Besides, from the beginning of this warre, untill the last moneth,  inter
 
armaubi silent literae versatus.  But these things I account part of my chief happinesse on earth, to have suffered much, and done a little good in the cause of Christ, and service of the State: onely I desire, that  nce it may not be thought strange, that I tender a plaine unpolished Sermon, quite naked in it's Margent, and in which nothing is cited but the holy Text; nor any author Ecclesiasticall or Morall heard speak. Seldome, if ever, hath there been offered to your hands such a rude piece of all home-spunne thoughts; neverthelesse, they breathing the force of the Divine Spirit, I trust shall finde acceptance with your   and being stampt on with your approbation, they   abroad in the world currant with all, not malignant or censorious. 
 To encourage the progresse of your abundant vertue, I need say nothing in my Epistle, since I speak much   that purpose in the Pulpit: the smallest hint is sufficient to provoke such zeal and willingnesse as ever resideth in your breasts. Goe on therefore in pious and honorable undertakings: the hearts, the tongues, the Pe  of all good me  blesse you; how can it then be, but the God of heaven, who hath set you apart, as chosen instruments also  , so universall good to his Churches, should in due time crown our endeavour: with successe; and infinitely recompente your labours in a better world? so prayeth 
 Yours to be commanded in all true observance and duty HUM: HARDVVICK. 

