
 
 To the Commanders, Gentlemen, Ministers, Souldiers, and Inhabitants in the Garrison of  Namptwich. 
 G Ive mee leave to grasp you within one Dedication, whom God hath joyn'd in the co-participation of the same mercies. You may look upon your late deliverance and victorie, as upon the liberall returne of millions of prayers. I need not recall the expression. Besides those scarce numerable you had nearer home; greater distance of place did not put you out of the reach of thousands more. There were those that could not compose themselves to rest at night; before they had vented some breath in sighs to God for you, and their eyes were no sooner open in the morning, but they were directed to Heaven for you; Heaven had no quiet, nor God any rest, till you were delivered. Me thinks the mercie it selfe, had you no other information, would tell you there was wrestling with God for the procurement of it. That God should burie your bullets in their bodies, who would have sheathed their swords in yours, and give you their Ordnance and Ammunition, who were so bold in their demands of yours; tis a goodnesse beyond your largest hopes. Had there been
 
but a raising of the siege alone it would (I beleeve) have abundantly satisfied the most   desire of your selves or your wellwillers. How should you take up the expression of  Ezra,  now thou hast given us such a del verance as this, should we againe breake thy Commandements. Y u may, nay you will have need of God againe; therefore let h m not heare an oath amongst you, nor see any more iniqu tie in the Camp. Tis true, you were valiant; but who made you so? and you playd the men for your people, and for the Citie of your God; but who helpt you to doe so? was it not God? I am confident you will not deny it. You have seene how powerfull and trustie He is, and that Hee is a present help in time of trouble. 
 Being (unexpectedly) taskt with the composure of this Relation, to draw it up out of what intelligence was to be had, by them to whom the care of it was put over by a sacred Authority; I was loth it should come to your hands without some testimony of my respects to you. I hope your memorie will not need the help of this mean record of the Lords mercie to you; yet your wonted favor makes me to promise my selfe these poore papers acceptance, which you may please to receive from 
 Your servant to pray and doe for you to his power,  P. J. 

