
 
 
 TO THE RIGHT HONORABLE the Lord MAYOR, and Court  of  ALDERMEN,  of the famous  Citie of LONDON. 
 T He occasion was solemne upon which this Sermon was preach t, the age is censorious in which 'tis printed; that did not make me forward to be in the Pulpit; this made me backward to be in the Presse: But the concealing of my Sermon would have been the discovering of my disobedience, and I rather chuse to be in Print then in such an opposition. 
 
 The season is stormie wherein my name puts forth, and who observes not Shipwracks in the Seas of this my passage, enough to make the sufferers pitied, and the spectators warned? For my selfe, the wisdome of your Commands is embarqued in the same bottom with my name; you make by far the greater adventure, and should there prove a miscarriage, your losse cannot be inferiour: But why speak I of storms or losses? may my vessell but set  Christ  on shore, upon any soul, it matters not afterward what becomes of it or me. My aime was service, not safetie, I went not out upon pleasure, but employment: Sermons are but  Machinae,  scaffolds to set up  Christ  in the heart; they obtaine their end in the furtherance of his work, not in the firmness of their owne standing. Our continuing longer then'till  Christ  be erected, is upon favour, not necessitie. 
 The way whereby I desire in this Sermon the advancing of  Christ,  is principally I confesse by destroying of that enemy which both hinders the setting of  Christ  up, and if let alone, will also cause our downefall; for the
 sin I here strike at, is very improperly called  self-seeking,  he who is usually termed a  self-seeker,  neither attending upon that which is truely  self,  nor upon the right  seeking  of it. That cannot be said to be done for  self,  which is not done for the  soule,  whatsoever is otherwise done being for  lusts,  or at the best for the moth, the theefe, the carkasse, rather then for ones  self.  The  soule-seeker  is the true  self-seeker.  Nor can this attending upon  self  be called a  seeking,  unles by it we understand a laborious painful toyling, and in that sense every  sinner  is a true  seeker,  but in respect of any wise disposall, or right ordering of endeavours toward the thing principally desired, which is good & happines, it may more properly be termed  a losing then a seeking;  rather a going from, then toward the thing after which there is made a seeming enquirie.  To seeke our selves by  sinning, by distrusting Gods providence, by excessivenes in earthly industries, by deserting the Cause of  Christ,  especially by driving our owne unworthy  designes  under pretence of friendship to the  Church,  this kind
 of  self-seeking  is  in Scripture politiks  no better then  selfe-losing.  This is the enemy against whom I bend the force of this ensuing Sermon; wherein if I see me to charge him with too much adventurousness, let the hurtfulnes both of his nature and practise be my excuse; for though it would be most happy living when  self-seeking  were dead, ye who would not with  Sampson  even willingly die, so as but this one  Philistine  might bee killed also? God hath followed this  Sermon  with two others Preach'd of late by the  mouth of the sword,  in the very  bowels  of this Kingdome; The one was a punishment upon  self-seeking  by our losse of a L icester.  Towne, the other a blessing upon  seeking him  by our winning the In that glorious victor e at Nasiby.  Field; In the first hee taught us this lesson,  seeking our selves and not God ruines us.  In the second, this;  Seeking God and not our selves revives us;  Oh that hee would please to Preach once more, and that by the  Sword of his mouth,  the power of his owne Spirit; for otherwise, 'tis possible indeed to scatter Armies and overcome Cities, Pro. 16.32.  but never will
 this  Spirituall and Beloved enemy self  be vanquished; However, I have laboured to discharge my trust, and thereby to quice my Conscience in discovering the Destroyer. The Lord grant that  England  may voyce him, and think him to bee as that people did  Sampson,  when hee was brought before them, the  Enemy and Destroyer of their Countrey and Kingdome. Iudg. 16.24. 
 In particular, I knew not better how to expresse my dearest respects to this famous City, whose  Lord Mayor,  with sundry of her  Aldermen  and  Commons,  have been formerly pleased to assist my now  dear charge,  in calling mee to the place of my present  Ministery:  Besides this former love to my self, that of late to my plaine dealing, (more then which, I know nothing, that procured your approbation to this Sermon) deserves a larger expression in this kind, of my gratefull resenting your religious favours; However, this testimony, such as it is, of my desires to serve your
 souls, I humbly present to your Honourable acceptance, beseeching God that  Christ-seeking,  and not  Self-seeking,  may ever be your Honor, and  Londons  happinesse, as a Minister wherein I am even to humblest acknowledgements 
 Your servant for Iesus sake,  William Ienkyn. 
 Christ-Church,  London. 

