
 
 
 To the True, yet Sickly-Church of England, Health and Peace, through Jesus Christ our Lord and onely Physitian, Amen. 
 Most deare Mother, 
 I  Cannot but acknowledge you to be the true Church of God, Mater est Jerusalem.  Lyran.  Ecclesia est congregatio Israel.  Rab. David Kimhi.  and the Spouse of Jesus Christ, when I consider these particulars following, 
 1. That the definition of a true Church doth accord with you, which is this. A true visible Church on earth, is a company of people called by God from Idols, to the true Religion, and professing subjection to that call, 1  Thes  1.9, 10.  Jam.  1.  ult.  2  Cor.  9.13. 
 2. When I consider that the Church of England hath Christ onely for her foundation, 1  Cor.  3.11. I confesse wood, hay, and stubble hath been laid upon this foundation, yet salvation in mercy belongeth to such as are the true sons of it,  verse  15. and doe retaine the foundation in faith and verity. 
 3. When I consider that Christ is your Head, Eph. 1.22.  and not Antichrist, though in circumstantials you doe symbolize too much with Rome. 
 4. When I consider that you have all the Essentials of a true Church, though not all the Circumstantials; Ecclesia participans ipsam essentiam quae ipsi in sua specie debetur, est vera Ecclesia.  We have the Word and Sacraments, like gold Oare mixed with some dust, but yet it is called Gold,  Job  28.6.  Iob  was a true man, though he was full of biles, and his friends knew him not,  Iob  2.7. The seven Churches
 in Asia are not unchurched for their imperfections,  Rev.  2.3. The Church of the Jews was a true Church, in Essentials, when it was most corrupt, and Christ did not depart from it, but did labour to better it. 
 5. When I consider that Christ hath not given you a Bill of Divorcement as yet, for he hath still communion with us in his Ordinances, and is about to refine you, & to enter into a neerer union with you:  Hos.  2.16, 17. he is taking away the names of  Baalim  out of your mouth, and pulling downe the reliques of superstition. 
 6. When I consider your opposition in Fundamentals to the false Church, I meane to Rome, that Synagogue of Satan. 
 7. When I consider of Gods extraordinary love to England, in affording us his presence so long, even unto admiration, and in defending his people here as much as in any Church in the whole Christian world;  Exod.  33.13, 14, 15.  Iacob  would not have kept company so much with  Rachel,  if she had not been his beloved wife. 
 8. When I consider your fruitfulnesse, I cannot but take you to be the Spouse of Christ,  Cant.  1.16. Do but look on former Martyrs, and on the present Parliament and Assembly of Ministers; yea doe but behold those sons of our English Church in New-England, and who can but say our Mothers bed is green?  Cant.  1.16. Christ doth lodge betwixt her breasts,  ver.  13. even all our night. 
 9. When I consider the hatred of Antichrist, it convinceth me that Rome and England are different Churches,  Iohn  17.14. 
 10. When I consider your agreement with all the true Churches that have been or are in Christendome, in Essentials, and how that all the Reformed Churches in Europe have and do give the right hand of fellowship
 to England; I cannot but stand and admire that any should be so ignorant and uncharitable, Mammae indicant legem utram{que} scriptam, & v e tenus acceptam.  Rab David Kimhi.  as to deny the womb that bare them, and to despise the paps that gave them suck. 
 Yet notwithstanding all this (deare Mother) I cannot but mourn when I behold your present lamentable face in a new, yet true glasse, made by such as have not onely skil in feeling your pulse, but also in viewing your physnomie. Wherein though you seem to appeare to me, in the shape of a true Church, and living Spouse of Christ Jesus, yet I cannot deny, but that you are a corrupt and sick one: (the Lord help you) Now in the griefe of my soule, give leave to a legitimate child of your owne womb, to crave on his knee one curtesie at your hands, it is but this, to accept and make use of a little spirituall physick prepared for your necessity, & presented to your sin-sick, yet curable-selfe, in this Galley pot, containing within it,  Parliament physick for a sin-sick Nation. 
 But lest you should deny me the common curtesie of indulgent mothers, who love to heare their little ones prattle, and to reade their scribling notes, though as full of blots and blurs, as  Iacobs  sheep of ring-strakes & spots, give me leave to Apologize a little for my selfe. 
 First, because as the Ordinance of Parliament is new, seasonable, and necessary; so the Explanation and Application of it must needs be something answerable to the nature of it, though far short of a correspondent excellencie. 
 Secondly, because your own Act in that Representative Body, doth put me upon this Kingdom-healing duty, which I cannot so fully and publikely performe, by preaching only, as by writing also. 
 Thirdly, because its a thousand pities that such an Ordinance as this is, should be buryed in the grave of
 Oblivion, which may be also profitable for succeeding Ages. 
 Lastly, because as I have appeared on the Stage, a friend to the Parliament of England, according to my power; so I desire to goe off no changeling, leaving behind me, not only a testimony of my constant resolution to live and die with such a pious, loyall, charitable, wise, and truly Honourable Parliament: but also rendring a reason of my faith, and Anti-cavalier actions. 
 Now what remaineth (deare Mother) but prayers for an all-curing benediction on this Catholicall medicine of Repentance, hereafter following: Except it may be thought necessary to use one motive to perswade your appetite to long after this metaphysicall potion, & that in regard of its transcendent excellencie. 
 Many men have received grosse receipts upon either a vain, or weak hope of a short and imperfect health. And of these I will report a few, which the more unpleasant they are to be uttered, the more fit they are, 1. To shame our negligence in taking, 2. To perswade the speedy and greedy using this most excellent parcell of Divine physick, compounded after Parliament prescription for a sin-sick Nation. 
 The excrements of dogs and of swallows have been taken for the squinancy Gal. M su. Ma om. Arab. Avicen. treat. of the diseases of the throat. . The dung of a wolfe with white wine for the collick Avic Pe. Ap. li . de Venen. c. 4. Gal. . Doves dung for the torment of the stone and bladder Plin. lib. 30. cap. 4.7.  New Asse dung, and also goose dung with white wine for the yellow jaundis Arnol. 2. vin. lib. 2. . The dung of horses, boares, sowes, beares, calves, hares, mice, for many other griefs Plin. lib. 28. cap. 14. . And generally the dung of all beasts is good for one distemper or another Paul. Agine . lib. 7. . 
 Also Physitians prescribe the urine of a boare Plin. lib. 28. cap. 15. , of an asse-colt Plin. lib. 28. cap. 10. , and of divers other beasts for several uses Gal. cap. 2. . 
 The sweat and filth of the cares both of men and divers
 beasts Gal Simp. l. 10. Plin. l. 28 c. 4. , spittle Gal. dict. l. 10 , and some other excrements of men and women not fit to be named Gal. ibid. . 
 Furthermore, they have prescribed the foame of horses & of boars Plin. l. 28. c 10 . Hoofs of goats and asses Gal. Simp. l. 10. . The brains of mice, & vomit of dogs Plin. lib 30. cap. 11. . A Vulture fatted with mans flesh Plin. lib. 30. cap. 10.  A Viper roasted like a pig Plin. lib. 30. c 6.13. . Also they have prescribed red slies Plin. lib. 30. cap. 12. , and wormes of the putrefaction of Vipers Marcel. c. 6.  Argumentum a minore. , and such as breed in rotten trees. And many of other sorts, any of which, a man would not give a horse, were it not for health sake. 
 Now the strength of the Argument lyeth thus. If men will take such base materials (as I am ashamed to write in cleane paper, and thou mayst blush to reade) and that only for the regaining of a little bodily health and ease: how much more should you (sick mother) be perswaded to take the potion of Repentance, which is most precious and healthfull for the soule, as appeareth in the Ordinance, and the explanation thereof? 
 Say not that a physicall life is a miserable life, Medice vivere est misere vivere. Dissicilia quae pul bra.  a melancholy and painfull life; for you know that sweet meat must have sowre sauce. Gainfull physick is always painfull. Its true, Repentance will make you weep a while, while it is working, but it will make you merry for ever and a day,  Psal.  16.  Mat.  5. after it hath done working. Though it be bitter in the taste, consider bitter physick is better then sweet poyson. Consider also that its usuall to take unpleasant pils, to sweeten life, though they be hurtfull to all the parts of the body, in one regard or other Mes e. lib. 2. Intent. 2 Sum. 1 cap. 1. can. 2. , and that chiefly by two means: 1. By evacuating the healthfull humours together with the hurtful. 2. By affecting the parts, with a quality contrary to nature Mes. lib. 1. de virib. cord. tract. 2. c. 2. . There is no physick but hath some poyson in it, & a destroying power in some part of it Aver. 5. Collicen. Avicen. in 4. prim. Gal. Simp. l. 4. . Hereupon  Plutarch  affirmeth, that they are so far from purging the body,
 that they had need themselves to be purged, because they breed grosnesse and hardnesse in the body Avenzoar li. T isi tract. 9. cap. 8. . Hereupon divers Physitians have setled an opinion, that its the best physick to take no physick at all. 
 But its not so with this Parliamentary physick, as hereafter shall appeare, if it shall please your wisdom to cast an impartiall eye, and benigne aspect on this my Primrose composition; the which, with the most humble addresses of a self-curing child, I present to your charitable hands, both for acceptance and protection in these physick-spilling, and Physitian-contemning dog-dayes. Think not (deare Mother) that all the aspersions which are cast on your first borne, and the Glory of your sanctified wombe, I meane the Parliament and Synod now assembled, or on me your Apothecary-son, are true, or likely to be so. Declaration and Vind cation of  Iohn Pym  Esquire. p. 4.  To put all out of doubt, I will conclude with that great Orator, State-Physitian, and Patriot of his Country,  Cicero Pym,  whose words are these.  How unlikely this is, and improbable, that I have promoted and fomented the differences and schismes now abounding in the English Church, shall to every indifferent man be rendred perspicuous; For that I am, and ever was, and so will dye, a faithfull son of the protestant Religion, without having the least relation in my beliefe, to those grosse errours, of  Anabaptisme, And not only of the Protestant profession.   and  Brownisme,  and the like, every man that hath any acquaintance with my conversation, can beare me righteous witnesse: These being but aspersions cast upon me, by some of the discontented Clergy, and their fautours and abettors. 
 Your dutifull son, and Health-wishing Apothecary,  N. J. 

