
 
 
 TO THE RIGHT HONOVRABLE the  HOƲSE  of  PEERS  assembled in PARLIAMENT. 
 My Lords: 
 I  If this ensuing Sermon present you with ought worthy your esteem, 'tis the  jewel  of  plain-dealing;  Twas preach't to  a Noble  audience, and (I confese) with the  liberty  of much  plainnes; Ezek. 2.6. Tit.  2.11 Ʋt post  ulgura pluvis, ita post prae dicatoris verba, auditorum lacbiymoe subsequamur. Illivs dectoris libenter vecem audio, non qui sibi plausu , sed qui mihi plactum mover. Si persuadere vis, gemendo id magis quàm declamando fludeas.  Bern.  Ser.  59.  in  Cant. Vxod. 15.11.  but he that made you  Noble,  enjoined me to be  faithfull. 
 I dare not flatter attentions into  smiles,  no not upon  a day of Thanksgiving.  So  poor  are our improvements of  rich  mercies, and  so fearfull  (yea)  in praises  is the God of our victories, that even upon a  festivall,  the  stage  should keep it's distance from the Pulpit. And if Sermons deserve to be suspected which on a day of rejoicing walk in the attire of flattery: should they goe in that garb on a night of mourning, surely
 they deserve to be  apprehended.  My Lords, mine was a  Fast-Sermon.  Soothing which is alway  bad,  would have been this day,  abominable. 
 The faithfullest messengers that ever God employed, Duplici sub specie divinus spiritus se mundo ostendit, columbinâ & igneâ, quia omnes quos implet & columbre fimplicitate mansuetos & igne zeli ardentes exhibet, Greg.  2.  part past.  c. 11.  Moses sic amavit ent quibus praesuit ut pro eis nec sibi parceret, & tamen delinquentes sic persecutus est, quos a mavit, ut eos etiam Domino parcente proster eret. Causam populi apud Zeum precibus, causam Dei apud populum gladijs allegavit. Intus amans ir e divinae supplicando obsistit: foris saeviens culpam feriendo consumpsit.  Gregor.  Mitis Stephanus cum lapidaretur, sed seviebat cum non audiretur.  Aug.  in  Ps. 32.   have set us a copy of freenes in reproving:  they are known examples of  Moses,  his deportment towards  Pharoah,  and (after) toward his own people, of  Elijah,  towards  Ahab,  of  Nathans  toward  David,  of  Jeremiah, John Baptist, Steven, Paul;  All which were as full of  zeal  for God, as pity to  people,  and as holily  impatient  against others  sins,  as holily  patient  under their own  sufferings;  against those they had tongues of fire, though under these they had the temper of a dove. They who when they were with God mourn'd and prai'd for the people, when they came among the people expressed their zeal in pleading for God. 
 My Lords, Clem. Alex.  paed. lib.  1.  cap  8, 9, 10.   . Id Ibid. Charitas piè solet saevire, sine dolo muleere, patienter novit iras i, hu tliter indiguar .  Bern.  ep  2.  ad  Fule.  Inesse rectoribus debet & justè conso ans misericordia, & pie saeviens disclplina.  Greg. 2.  p. past. Remissa tenita  amputanda severa integritas albibenda, Sit amor sed non emolliens pieta  sed non plusquam expediat parcens.  Greg  cap.  6.  Molestus est medicus surenti phrenetico & pater indisciplinato fuio, ille ligando iste coelendo, sed ambo diligendo.  Aug.  ep.  1.  ad  Bonif.  Host is redemptor is est qui per rect a opera quae sacit, ejus vice ab ecclesiâ amari concupiscit. Adulterinae co itationis est reus si placere puer sponsae oculis appetit per quem sponsus dona transmifit.  Greg.  cur, past. par. sec. cap.  8.  In your  commanding  me to  preach,  there was (at least) an implicit  forbidding  of me to  flatter.  Sermons must shew  a right way,  not a  smooth way,  the way of  duty,  not  of delight,  the way which  you ought,  not which haply you  love to go in;  The work of a Preacher is not to prepare you  sauce but physick,  not so much to take away  pain,  (especially on a day of afflicting the soul) out of your wounds as to prevent  festering:  And so for our selves, we get not up into the Pulpit to be  safe,  but to be  serviceable,  not for our own  pleasure,  but our masters  employment, 
 to win and woe you to  Christ,  not to our  selves. 
 Your  Lordships  never deserved the  least  hurt at my hands, sure I am, Censura intermissa aliquando proficit,  unquam remissa.  Bern.  ep.  24.  ad  Hug.  not that which being a sinne can never be a  debt,  should never be  payment, Plus persequitur lingua adulatoris quam ma us interfectoris,  Aug.  in  Ps. 70.  I mean the  soothing  of your souls  into destruction:  nay the danger of  flattering  you, is extensive beyond your selves.  Flattery  bound up in a Sermon and thrown into a  Parliament, Naturali ducimur malo, adulatoribus libenter favemus, & quanquam nos respondeamus indignos, & calidus rubor ora persundat, taemen ad laudem suam intrinsecus anima letatur.  Hieron.  ep.  22.  ad  Eustoch.  is no better then a  bag of poyson  cast into a  common conduit  serving for the use of a whole City. 
 May we that are Ministers ever tremble to hold our esteem by so  crazy a title  as holding our peace. Every one must be  accountable  for  his idle words, Non solum ille transgressor est, qui palam denegat veritatem, sed qui propter timorem tacet veritatem.  Auth.  op. imperf.  Mat 10 33.  Iure ist am vitam quādo divinitus affl untur amaram seutiunt cujus amando dulcedinem peccantibus amari esse nolunt.  Aug.  and a Minister for his  idle silence 100.  The greatest enemy to reproofs is unable to  put in security  to save either himself, or the flattering Minister harmles another day nay even in this life (as  Augustine  excellently) God makes the world bitter to Ministers by sufferings, because they make it so sweet to wicked mgn by flatteries. 
 Beside,  flattery  is no other then  Court-idolatry,  and why should this piece of it be longer lived then the rest, especially among those that professe a detestation of it in every part. 
 My Lords,  Your only worke that now remains (for God hath done the rest to your hand) is the
 setting up the Temple,  and the only  stop  is the  serving of the time.  My text is a  harp  tuned by the finger of God himself, and 'tis to drive away this  evil spirit  of  temporizing,  in a time of  Temple building.  I confesse he that of late used that  harp,  wanted the hand of  David;  and therefore 'twas his fear he should not do the worke of  David,  but I and sure he hath not wanted the  spear  of  Saul,  and therefore 'tis his hope that he hath endeavoured to do it.  My Lords,  I desire to  rejoyce  in any  suffering  for the  service of your souls:  I consess my ruins would be very unworthy to set up the least peece of abuilding of glory to  Jesus Christ,  or to make the smallest addition to the structure of  his Temple,  but may they in the least conduce to such an end, my enemies though against their wills, endeavour my happines. 
 The Lord give you a discerning eye 'twixt  friends and flatreries,  'twixt the  Mephibosheths  and the  Zibahs  of these times:  Dishearten  not your  plain-hearred  friends, who dare not wear it to  save their souls  (much lesse to thwart an opposite way, or to lay  rubs in the way of Reformation ) dare not (I say)  break their Covenant,  or be  false to their own principles;  That God would increase the numbers of such as for him serve you, and your resolutions to serve him and love them, is the prayer 
 My Lords 
 of him who is your servant for the good of your souls, WILLIAM JENKYN. 

