
 
 
 To our very assured loving Friend, Master  Lenthall  Esquire, Speaker of the Honourable the Commons House of Parliament in the Kingdom of ENGLAND. 
 T Here hath been presented unto us, a Remonstrance of the deplorable estate of this Church of  Ireland,  and the lamentable Condition of the Clergy therein, occasioned by the present Rebellion; The Remonstrants desiring our Letters in the Representing of the same to the honourable House of Commons in  England;  unto whose grave and wise consideration they do apply themselves. 
 
We shall not need to say much in a matter, so much speaking it self, and the experience we have of the true sence they have of this distracted State, gives us great assurance, that they will take to heart this our miserable Church, and Gods servants therein, reduced unto unexpressable extremities, both Church and State being now involved in one common calamity. 
 The bearer hereof,  Henry Jones,  Doctor in Divinity, is intrusted by the Clergy to negotiate in their behalf, and we have intreated him to solicite the cause of the poor robbed English, expressed in our Letters to you of the fourth of this moneth. 
 We therefore do crave leave to recommend him in this imployment to that Honourable House, he
 
being a Person who is able to say much in this businesse, having been some while a Prisoner in the hands of the Rebels, and observed much of their proceedings, and being intrusted with others, as a Commissioner to take the examinations out of which the Remonstrance now to be by him offered to that Honourable House, is extracted. 
 As for himself, he hath suffered much in his private fortunes by these troubles, and in respect of his Abilities and Learning, and Painfulnesse in his Ministry, he deserveth favour and encouragement; Besides we have found him very diligent, and forward in attending all occasions, for promoting the publike services here by timely and important intelligence given to us of Occurences, during
 
his imprisonment with the Rebels; and since especially in his information made to us of the approaches of the enemy to  Drogheda,  when we could not conceive they would rise to that boldnesse, by which information (amongst others) we had the opportunity of sending thither the present Garrison, without whom it might have been in danger of surprising; And so we remain from His Majesties Castle of  Dublin  the seventh day of  March,  1641. 
 Your very assured 
loving Friends 
 W. Parsons, Jo. Borlace, 
R. Dillon, Ad. Loftus, J. Temple, 
Cha. Coote, Tho. Ratherham, 
Fran. Willoughby, Rob. Meredith. 

