
 
 
priviledges of  Jacobs  spirituall houshold, and to draw from you (in these humbling times) expressions of sorrow most sutable to those who walk so unsutably to celestiall favours; (many priding themselves in an imaginary title to the  beneficium   Jer 7. 9. 10  Putant e im Hypocritae si modo externas  u'tus divini cer ni  quas an observent, tunc onnia tecte babere, quamvis ipsi in sceleribus praefra te per gu it Os  and in loc.  of the family, who are wholly neglective of the  officium)  this being of concernment to all Christians (to whom—are also some directions hinted) so chiefly to governours and all Reformers, that they  partake not in other mens sins.   1 Tim 5 22.    Ne{que} te participem constitue ali rum peccat   um.  I have endeavoured to incite you who are  Masters  in our  Israel,  to improve your diligence in the discharge of that trust and office in this family, wherewith above others you are honoured by God; who having  1 Sam. 2 30.  manifested his bounty to this household no lesse, if not much more then to  Exod. 10 23.  s . 8 19. psul. 147 19. Act. 14. 16.  those our forefathers, in vouchsafing  light  to us, when others of our Allies sit
 
in  darknesse  blacker then Egyptian, is pleased to direct us to our work and walk by a  pillar  at his own charges, holding forth to us a  light  so much the more necessary, by how much  the Princes of this world,  who know not the Gospel,  crucifie   1 Cor. 2. 8.   to themselves the Lord of glory:  And as those venemous serpents in  Sardinia,   Solin. poybist. cap  9.  Accendunt quotidie lucernas, quib  nulla lux est: illis co petunt test imonis te ebrarum.  Te t.  Apol  10.  Igne  fatunm qui sequmuntur in avia abducuntur & in pr cipitia fossa  que saepe numero run t. Kek Syst. Rhys. lib.  6.  mentioned in stories, either hate and flie the  light,  or like those in  Tertullians  time, bear a lanthorn profession without  light,  or as another sort by an  ignis fatuus,  are led into dangerous precipices and by-waies, and with  Ixion  in the Poet, embrace a cloud for the true  Iuno,  shadows in the room of orthodox and substantiall truths. The scope of all is to undeceive you in pointing to that only  light  of truth which is able to lead you to eternall  light,  and in the  interim  to afford direction in managing the whole businesse of
 
this  house,  by which all other  lights  are to be examined, whereto if disagreeing, it is  Isa. 8. 20.  because there is no light in them.  Lo Cook. jurisdiction  of Courts.  According to which that you may act to the houses welfare, Go s glory; and therein as your Noble predecessours, appear  Doctum, pium & benedictum Parliamentum,  and not otherwise, to your own comfort in the great day, when the great  Bishop  and  King  of heaven and earth shall appear clothed with the robes of glory, as it is the endeavour, so the prayer of 
 Yours Robert Iohn son. 

