
 
 
 TO THE RIGHT VVORSHIPFVL, Sr. VVILLIAM STRICKLAND KNIGHT, and HERBOTTLE GRIMSTON Esquire, two worthy Members of the Honourable House of COMMONS. 
 Right worthy Sirs, 
 I  Presented you with a former Booke against M r .  Saltm.  his Remora to the Reformation in hand, as I did other mine honoured and worthy friends; this I offer to your view as to Judges of the difference betwixt him and me, as it hath been a graduate by the presse from an  Answer  to  Reply,  from that to a  Rejoynder,  where for the present the period is fixed,
 and for my part it shall be to me as an Herculean pillar, (beyond which I will not sayle) and this resolution with my Reasons I have imparted to M r .  Saltm.  in a particular Epistle to himselfe. But though I proceed no further with him in the reciprocation of Replyes, you may be pleased, having acquaintance with him, as he maketh his addresses to you, or as any opportunitie presenteth him before you, to contribute some of your discreet counsels for better imployment of his parts and pen, then in crying downe that Discipline and Government, as terrible and tyrannicall, which the prudent Senators of both the Honourable Houses of Parliament in part have set up, and further endeavour to advance; and in damning the maintenance of Ministers as  Antichristian  and  Iewish,  which the same authoritie by many ancient Acts, and your selves with your Honourable Associats by a late Ordinance have established. 
 For the former, I professe unto you, it is matter of wonder unto me, how any man can have the face to make such out-cryes against the Government, as he and some others doe, as if it were more formidable then Prelaticall domination in the highest degree; when every Bishop by his own power set out Articles in his Visitation, concerning all aberrations from Ecclesiasticall Canons, whether sinnes or no sinnes, and by a meere Arbitrary power made many times crimes of duties, as preaching in the afternoone of the Sabbath day; and duties of crimes, as Reading the Book for Recreations and sports on that Day; and convented, and censured all sorts of persons, (by his sole Jurisdiction) sentencing whom he would to suspension,
 and excommunication, imposed Orders of Penance with ordinary Fees, and extraordinary Commutations, sometimes at no lesse then 100 or 200 pound price; besides the additionall power of Justice-ship of Peace, and the High Commission, whereby the two Archbishops, and as many as in either Province they made choice of, to be Assessors to them on that dreadfull Tribunall punished, as they thought meet, with fine and imprisonment, with great fines, and long imprisonment, many times for small faults, and sometimes for none at all; whereby some of them carryed their concurrent authoritie with such cunning, that most were overawed by it, knowing it was great and various, and not knowing, for the most part, when they did act by one power, when by another. 
 And can our Anti-presbyterian opposites say that any single Presbyter, any Presbytery Parochiall, Classicall, or Provinciall, assume any such jurisdiction, or power, either over mens persons or estates? Is not suspension from the Sacrament, and Excommunication from the Church the utmost authoritie they claime? and is this any more then they that both condemne, and contemne the Presbytery, of their own free-will, or self-will doe unto themselves? 
 It is said by some, that to set up Presbytery in stead of Prelacy is to multiplie Clergie masters over the people, and for one Bishop in a Diocesse to set up many, in some no fewer then a thousand for one; But they should consider that all the Ecclesiasticall authority of a Diocesse united in one Bishop, as in an Episcopall
 Sea, was as the river Cyrus Gynden late fusum amnem vado transire tentavit: ibt unus ex equis qui trahere regium currum albi solcbant, abreptus, vehementer commovit regem. Juravit itaque amnem illum regiis equis meatum aufereutem, co se redacturum, ut transiri, calcarique etiam a foeminis posset. Huc deinde omnem transtulit belli apparatum, & tamdiu assedit operi, donec centum & octoginta cuniculis divisum alveum in trecentos & sexaginta rivos dispergeret & fiecum relinqueret, in diversum fluentibus aquis.  Senec. de ita, lib. 3. cap. 21. pag. 448.   Gyndes  very deepe, and of a boysterous streame, as when it drowned the white Horse that drew the Charet of  Cyrus,  but being divided among so many Ministers, or Presbyters, it is as the same River, when  Cyrus  enraged at the losse, and meaning to be revenged of it, caused it to be divided into three hundred and sixtie channels. 
 And yet is not every Presbyter (though a Bishop) as a Prelate in his own Parish, that is, endowed with sole power of censures, for others are to be joyned in administration of Government with him, in many places many for one, and in no place under a double number. 
 As for the right of Presbytery, whether it be Divine, or humane, I conceive, if the Question were rightly stated, and the officers their power, dutie, qualifications? and administrations clearly distinguished, those that are in extremes for their Tenets, whether holding all of it, or none of it to be of Divine right, would be eafily convinced of an errour, and a Tenure would be found out, and made good, wherein Christ might have his due to the full, without any diminution of the Magistrates just Authoritie, or of any libertie which truly might be called Christian. 
 For the latter concerning the unlawfulnesse of Tythes, if his Tenet now be right, his taking of them before was wrong; and the same constitution
 of conscience, which makes him now to renounce them, may make him at least to doubt whether he be not bound to returne what he hath received of the Parishioners of  Brasteed  in that kinde into their hands againe, by vertue of that received Rule of Non remittitur peccatum nisi restituatur ablatum.  August. Epist. 54. ad Macedon. pag. 280.   Augustine  in his Epistle to  Macedonius, The sinne is not remitted, unlesse the goods that are wrong fully taken be restored. 
 And if he appeare before you againe, you may doe well to put such a case of conscience to his consideration. For my part I am sorry to see him so unsetled in his judgement, so sedulous in his endeavours (under pretence of Evangelicall calmenesse, and meeknesse, and moderation of spirit) to prepare a Patronage for all wild and wicked fancies, that every man may beleeve what he list, and live as he beleeveth, and so may doe what is right in his own eyes, that is, whatsoever is wrong in the eyes of God and of all good men, as if there were no King in Israel,  Iudges  17.6. that is, no Government (for then the Kingly power over that people was not set up.) 
 But the cure of this belongs to the care of your selves, and your Honourable Colleagues, for whom it is our parts, whom God hath placed under your power and protection, uncessantly to supplicate to the throne of Grace, that as you have pulled down the remainders, and removed the rubbish of ruined Babel from among us, so you may in Gods good time (and the sooner the better) set up in stead thereof such a faire, and goodly frame of Church-government, from the foundation to the top-stone, as may be entertained with shouting, not of a party onely, as at the laying of
 the foundation of the Temple,  Ezra  3.11, 12, 13. but of all sorts both old and young; and to this publique devotion (wherein you have your sociable share, as you have a part of the common care and providence for the welfare of three Kingdomes) I shall adde my private supplications for your prosperitie in particular, and to them my sincere endeavours, 
 To be faithfully and affectionately yours in any acceptable service,  IOHN LEY. 

