
 
 
 TO THE HONOVRABLE HOVSE OF  COMMONS  Assembled in PARLIAMENT. 
 W Hile I humbly offer that to the view, which I lately presented to the audience of your ever Honoured, and then sacred Assembly (both the preaching and publishing of it in print, being acts of due obedience to your commands; and I wish they were capable of titles of gratitude for your favours) it may be my lot, to have some passages of my Sermon, censoriously met withall, if not for any falsehood or fault in the matter, yet for some  supposed incongruity  to the office of the Authour, and  with pretence  also of some biassed partiality, in the great differences of our most unhappily divided Kingdom (divided under those Names as some mistake, and mis state the question) which have best right to the humblest reverence, and heartiest loyalty of all the Subjects of the Land:  which calumnie  if I cannot prevent, I may have hope to repell the assault of it, by such considerations as these: which I crave leave to tender to the touch of your Lydius lapis  the touchstone,  Plin. nat. bist.  l. 33. c 8.  Lydian judgement, and in them to speake to you and of you to others, as the dictat of duty and discretion shall direct me. 
 First, It cannot in equity or prudence be deemed an impertinency to our ministeriall profession, or an over-busie medling (in matters above, or besides our calling) to appeare apprehensive of our common perill, and to doe what lyeth within the fathome of our power, and the verg of our vocation, either for prevention of imminent, or for removall or mitigation of our present miseries. 
 And if we affected the praise of prudent silence, which the Prophet commendeth (as seasonable for evill times)  Amos 5.12.  I doe not see, how we
 could now observe it, being often required by our superiours, to publish their minds and our own unto the people, in matters of secular concernement, and many times also (in private) desired to satisfie their doubts, when they are called upon to give their assent and assistance in matters of great moment, for the publike welfare: And I thanke God, such have ever beene the principles, which have set the deepest impression upon my judgement and conscience, and upon others likewise (by mine information) that, (to my knowledge) I have not whispered any resolution or advice in theeare, which I may not warrantably publish upon the house topps, as our blessed Saviour gave direction to his Disciples,  Mat. 10.27.  Nor have I breathed out any position or opinion, either in private or publike, for which I should be unwilling to bleed or to dye. 
 Secondly, For my loyall affection to his Majesty, mine own heart tells me, I prize him as the dutifull subjects of  David  did him (their Royall Soveraigne) when they valued his life  at ten thousand of their ovvn, 2 Sam. 18.3.  and had rather my body should be the sheath of a two edged and poisoned Sword, (as Speeds Chrō.  l. 7. c. 20. p. 300   Lilloe's  was, when he stept betwixt the murtherer, and King  Edwine  his Master, to intercept the deadly thrust intended and aimed at the heart of his Soveraigne) then consent to lay any hands upon him, but as the Angells did upon  Lot, Gen. 19.16.  for his deliverance from danger; in which case a loving violence hath more affinity with duty, then with disobedience:  for a King (being a publike person) hath no power to dispose of himselfe  (for perillous adventure)  in Basil. Dor.  l. 2. p. 165, 166.   respect, that to his preservation or fall, the safety or wrack of the whole Common-weale is necessarily coupled, like as the body is to the head,  as his Majesties learned Father, of famous memory, resolved in case of duells: and though afterwards, speaking of a just war, he counselled the Prince (to whom he wrote) Ibidem.   once or twice, in his own person, to hazard himselfe fairely, (but afterwards, to conserve himselfe for the weale of his people; for whose sake, he must be more carefull for himselfe then for his own:)  I conceive the reason rendred for the security of his Royall Person is of force, not only against the perill of a single combat, but of a sociable warre or set battell (especially for hereafter) since his Majesties courage and magnanimity is so well knowne, that his cautionary prudence can never come under the misinterpretation of timerous cowardize; for avoidance whereof, his Royall Father gave advice for the adventure fore-mentioned. 
 Thirdly, For the high Court of Parliament (whereof your honourable House of Commons is the  Alpha  in order of proceeding) his Majesty
 (that last was) hath taught me to know it, as  the Ibidem.   Kings head-Court;  and his Majesty (that now is) advanced mine estimation of it, by his gracious acknowledgement, His Majesties Speech,  Ian.  25. 1640.   that often Parliaments, are the fittest meanes to keepe correspondence betwixt him and his people, which he doth much desire: His Majesties answer to the Petition of the Lords and Commons,  Iunij  17. 1642. p. 6.   that it is impossible for him to subsist, without the affections of his people; and that those affections cannot possibly be preserved or made use of, but by Parliaments, that they cannot give the least credit, or have the least suspition, that his Majesty would chose any other way to the happines he desires to himself and his posterity, but by Parliaments.  And it is raised yet higher, by his gracious acceptation of his Speech, who represented it to him,  as a most soveraigne remedy against all the distempers of this Nation: were they  ( Mr. Speaker in his Speech to his Majesty,  November  the 5. 1640.  saith he)  troubled at Sea, troubled at home, or invaded from abroad? here was the sanctuary of refuge, hither was the resort, and no other way found for a foundation of peace.  And for a returne of all loyall and affectionate observances to his Majesty, on the Parliaments part, you with your right Honourable colleagues, have professed your resolution, So in the Declaration of both Houses,  March,  12. 1642.   to keepe your selves within the bounds of faithfullnesse, and allegiance to his Royall Person and his Crownes; The Parliaments second Remonstrance,  p  1.   to provide for the publike peace and prosperity of his Majesty and his Realmes; protesting in the presence of the all-seeing Deity, that it still hath beene, and still is the only end of all your counsells and endeavours, wherein you have resolved to continue freed and enlarged from all private aimes, personall respects or passions whatsoever.  And your Ibid  p. 11.   earnest desire of his Majesties returne to  London,  that upon it you conceive depends the very safety and being of both his Kingdomes; and therefore you have protested you will be ready to say or doe any thing, (that may stand with the duty and honour of a Parliament) which may raise a mutuall confidence, betwixt his Majesty and your selves as you doe wish, and the affaires of the Kingdome doe require.  And to the same purpose againe, Ibid  p 13.   we intend  (say you)  to doe whatsoever is sit, to make up the unpleasant breach betwixt his Majesty and parliament. 
 By such expressions as these (carrying most cleare and legible Characters of your Loyalty and Love to his Maiesty) you have righted your Reputations against all iust cause of suspition of Popish tenets, or intentions against his Person and his Crowne; and have gained the beleefe of all good Subiects, that you spake in sincerity, when you said,
 In the third Remonstrance or Declaration of the Parliament  May  26. 1642. p. 4. You suffered not such things to enter into your thoughts, as all the world knowes, the Papists have put into act:  (whereof I shall shortly give instance in my other Sermons upon this Text, which some worthy: Members of your Honourable Society have required to the Presse.) And so (upon confidence in your fidelity) have ingaged their affections, and all their Interests (both for the present and the future) under the conduct of your most prudent Counsels and commands, accounting it a most fickle unfaithfullnesse, and finally destructive to the foundation of our  English  Government, if they (who have voted your Election to places in Parliament) should upon any Malignant surmises against you, desert either their due obedience to you, or just and necessary defence of you, though with the hazard of their estates and persons. 
 Against such assurance as you have given of your faithfull allegiance to his Majesty, your zealous Constancy in prosecution of a perfect Reformation of Court, City, and Country from prophanenesse and Popery, importeth no colour of contradiction at all (though some, whose condition most requires it, distast and desire to wrest it to some such misconstruction) but carrieth with it an exact conformity to what you have professed. 
 For what better proofe of integrity in what you undertake, then your pressing to promote the prosperity of the King, as well as of the Kingdome? And what meanes more conducible unto that end then Religion and Justice? As S.  Augustine  sheweth; where he saith, Ne{que} no  Christ anos quo ā emperatores  deo foelices d cimus, quia vel diutiùs imperarunt, &c.  Aug.  de Civit. Dei l.  5.  c.  24.   We account not Christian Emperours happy, because they have raigned long, or because they have had power to suppresse insurrections, or oppresse their enemies; nor because they have dyed a quiet death, and left their children to raigne after their decease: Sed foelices eos dicimus, si justè imperarunt, si inter linguas sublimitèr honoran um, et obsequia, nimis humiliter salutantiam non ex. tollu u , sed se homines esse memnerint, si suam potes a ē, ad Dei  ui u , &c.  bid▪   But we call them happy, if they rule with justice, if among the tongues of those that too highly extoll them, or too humbly salute them, or too obsequiously serve them, they remember themselves to be but men, if they apply their power so, as to make it most serviceable to the honour of the divine Majesty, if they feare, and love and worship God, and more love that kingdome, where they need not feare competitors or consorts, then that, wherin they may be afraid of them— S uxu i ā  ò eis est cast g , qu n  possi     upiditatibus   quam   imperare.  Ibidem.   if they so much more refraine from luxury, as (being without restraint of others) they may be more free unto it; and bad rather raigne over evill concupiscence, then Countries and Nations. Tales Christianos imperateres dicimus esse foelices.  Ib.   Such Christian Emperours  (saith he)  we call happy,  and
 happy surely are the people, who are governed by such an one, as so governeth himselfe. 
 And for your zeale against the prevailing of Popery, and for the advancement of the Protestant Religion, it makes most for his Majesties honour and safety: not only in respect of piety, but of policy, for that wise State, man the Duke of  Rohan,  in his Treatise of  the Interest of Princes and States,  makes his observation of the State of  England,  in these words The Duke of  Rohan  his Treatise of the Interest of Princes and States.  p  58.   Besides the Interest which the King of  England  hath common with all Princes, he hath yet one particular, which is, that He ought throughly to acquire the advancement of the  Protestant Religion,  even with as much zeale, as the King of  Spain  appears  Protector  of the  Catholick. And what zeale that is, he hath showed before in the Ibid   p  4.  ad nonam.   Interest of  Spain. 
 Notwithstanding all this, there be some men, who (deeply guilty of deceit themselves) will never be satisfied with any evidence of sincerity in other men: with such there is no security in the Prerogative of the King, nor the Priviledge of Parliament, against in urious traducement: since nothing beareth sway with them, but their self-conceit or particular advantage, or which is worse, their virulent spleen against the better part, which stirreth them up to  reproach  them, as tumultuary busie-bodies, who doe but bring some buckets of water to quench a burning, which they have treacherously kindled against their own Country, and as confidently (and not more innocently) to cry  Sedition, Sedition  against the most loyall and true hearted Subjects of Royall Maiesty: as  Athaliah  did  Treason, Treason, 2  Kin.  11.14.  When Sedition is their raigning sin, as treason was hers, and that the worst Sedition of all others, for what can be worse then that (and theirs is such) which separateth those in iudgement, affection, and locall mansion, who (for the two first) should alwaies and (for the third) should very often be united together,  viz.  his Maiesty and Parliament. 
 But this should not so discourage a single Subiect (much lesse so many thoice Patriots as make up your venerable number) as to with-draw or with-hold him from any devotion or endeavour, to which he is obliged (as a part of the publike) and he is more obliged in reason and conscience to the united Interests of King and Parliament, then to any devided title of contestation betwixt them. 
 And for this your eminent example for untainted integrity, unquenchable fervency, insuperable patience, indefatigable diligence and untainted resolution in the pursuance of your excellent purposes (for the
 good of Church and State) will be to others both a patterne of practice and a Buckler of Defence. The Lord God Almighty, be still resident in your venerable Senate,  to guide  all your Consultations to his owne glory, and the common safety both of his Maiesty, of your selves, and of the many Millions of people vertually comprised in your Diaconos paucitas honorabiles fecit.  Hier. Epist. Oceano Tom.  2.  p.  329.   Honourable paucity,  being (in equivalence) as a few peeces of gold, to many of silver, or of other inferiour Mettals, and  to guard  your persons by his power and providence, from all destructive plots, and hurtfull mishaps, that you may live to reape and enioy the ripe fruit of that Reformation, whose seed hath been sowen in many teares of humiliation, both publike and private, which the enemies of Gods truth, and of the  English  State, would drowne in blood; which God forbid: So prayeth 
 Your most humbly devoted Servant in the Lord Iohn Ley. 

