
 
 
 To the right Worshipfull and Reverend Gentlemen and Ministers of the Classis at  RIE-GATE  in the Countie of  SURREY. 
 Right Worshipful and Reverend! 
 I T hath pleased Divine Providence  first  to wean mee from my Native Countrie,  then  from the World, and now  lastly  from my self: So that I who am naturally of an infirm and crazie Constitution, subject to compliance with the stream, and to turn with the  Heliotropium,  am supernaturally elevated above common principles, Spiritually engaged to plead for Christ, even in such Malignant times, wherein Christ is opposed in his Name, Person, Offices, Word and Works; when most men rather  wag their heads  against him, then truly  vail their bonnets  and bow their knee before him. 
 There have been times wherein this Subject might have fallen into the  bosom of Nurses,  but now it is like to fall into the  hands of Step-dames.  PRESBYTERIE is counted  Marah,  though indeed shee bee a  Naomi;  and every man will crie up the  Diana of Licentiousness,  not becaus it is a right way, but the common Rode both for Libertines and Atheists. 
 
 Elijah, John Baptist, Luther  had their times, which though perilous to themselvs, yet they accepted as advantageous to their Master: and  Paul  consulted with the Spirit and Faith, while Flesh and Blood would have made him a Renegado to Christ and the Gospel. 
 But so weak are wee, that there is need of reasons to whet our Zeal as well as examples to strengthen it; let us consider that not onely the Caus but also the Success is God's.  Ieremie  and  Luther  died in their beds, while  Balaam  the fals Prophet die's by the sword: and  Tecelius  die's wounded with grief by his own Partie. 
 Moreover it is a considerable truth, that God look's not onely at the  substance  of the dutie, but at the  circumstances  that attend it: and that hee delight's in  Adverbs  more then in  Neuns;  and love's  bene  better then  bonum  it self: Therefore though it bee well taken that Christians follow Christ when all men crie  Hosanna;  yet it is most seasonable when all men crie  Crucifie:  though it bee most  sweet  to follow Christ when the  Crown  is on his temples, yet it is most  meet  to follow him when the  Cross  is on his back. It is good to own Christ on Mount  Calvarie,  as well as Mount  Tabor:  when hee is spit upon by an adulterous generation,  Mark  8.38. as  Moses  and  Paul  did, the first whereof preferred the  reward of Christ  above the  Treasures of Egypt;  the other was not ashamed of the preaching of the Gospel when all men cast shame upon it,  Romans  1.16. 
 This Kingdom is too like  Israel  in blessing, and in barrenness; and therefore may bee called Jidsreel  disperdendi à Deo,  divided, scattered, ruined by the Lord, rather to bee styled Jezrelites then true Israelites as  Jacob  and  Nathanaël  were. 
 God had given us a wise, zealous, active, glorious Parliament; but mee think's the beauty and splendor
 fade's as a woman doth after many throwes, and as the body doth after many aguish Paroxisms: no doubt all this for our sins. 
 Mee think's the Scene begin's to change; the Scale which ere while was lowest now mount's to a considerable height, and all this too for our iniquities. 
 But I had rather discuss the  Cure  then the  Diseas.  Two things must recover  England,  and two things must preserv it. 
 1. The  recovering  consist's in intire  repenting  and  reforming. 
 2. The  preservation  1. In the holy  Union of King with Parliament:  2. In wholly and entire  submission to the Government of Christ.  Now our Lord Jesus Christ hath a four-fold Government;
 
 1.  Internal,  that of the Spirit. 
 2.  External, 
 
 1.  Preaching the Word. 
 2.  Administration of the Sacraments. 
 3.  Ecclesiastical Discipline,  which is the present subject now in hand. 
 
 
 And for the opening whereof I have don my endeavor in this ensuing  Compendium,  and have made bold to dedicate it to you who are the Right Worshipful and most Reverend Elders of the Classical Assemblie. 
 Magistrates  and  Ministers  are the  duo magna Luminaria;  which two great Lights God made to  protect  and  govern  his  Church,  as the  Sun  and the  Moon  to govern the  World:  how happie shall the Church bee in so noble and sacred a conjunction? no less  beautiful  then  Tirzah;  no less  terrible then an Armie with Banners. 
 The causes which first engaged mee to write was no supposition of abilitie in my self;
 Hoc tantūm scio me nîl scire.  Soc.  but  first  I desired to extract an Epitome of the Government for my private satisfaction;
 then  I faw it necessarie to give answer to som scruples of wise and wel-affected persons under mine own charge, unto which this present Treatise hath som relation: and  lastly  I perceived (which was the main motive) that the greatest obstacle why it was not generally embraced was, not becaus it wanted  splendor  in it self, but becaus men wanted  eies  and illumination. 
 It was  Ignorance  made the  Norvegian  the first time hee saw Roses, not dare to touch them, for fear of burning his fingers; and it is no less ignorance that make's common people fear a Government. Must wee (say they) com to the touch-stone? just like little children, afraid of Goblins in the dark; therefore they often turn, and return with  Solomon 's door upon the hinges, before they can either bar their hearts against it, or set them open courteously to give it entertainment. 
 Such as these must learn by  example,  and by  experience;  Your's, (Noble Patriots and Magistrates!) will do much; you are the great wheels must set the lesser on gate. 
 Give mee leave a little to withdraw the curtain that stand's before it, and it will discover it self amiable to you upon an exact survey: I shall onely mark unto you six particulars. 1. It is a Primitive. 2. Pure. 3. Spiritual. 4. Safe. 5. Prudential. 6. Aristocratical Government. 
 1.  It is Primitive. Peter  call's himself not a Bishop, but a Presbyter,
 .  1  Pet.  5. who am also an Elder.  Paul  1  Tim.  4.14. bid's Timothie  neglect not the gift which was given by imposition of hands,  (not of Episcopacie but) Presbyterie. 
 Totum hoc magis ex consue tudine quàm ex dispositionis veritate,  Hieron. Ep. ad Evang. et Com. in Tit.   Hierom  tell's us that the distinction of Bishops and Presbyters is of small use, of different Order rather then Authoritie: Like power to that which a Super-intendent or
 Prolocutor hath in a Synod or an Assemblie, all this whatsoever Authoritie they usurp is more out of custom then Divine ordination. 
 And as for Lay-Elders (if I may so style them)  Ambrose  expounding these words  rebuke not an Elder, 
 Doctorum desidiâ aut magis superbiâ,  Ambr. Tom. 5. on 1 Ep. Tim. cap. 5.  complaine's, that the Ecclesiastical jurisdiction-of knowing causes was degenerated from the Primitive use, and devolved upon the Ministers.  First,  saith hee, the Synagogue,  after  that, the Church had Elders, without whose counsel nothing was don in the Church; by what sort of means it went out of use I know not, whether by the  idleness,  or rather the  pride of the Doctors. 
 Tertullian, 
 Mox praesident probati quique seniores,  Tertul. utì Grotius in in Matth 18.  as  Grotius  recite's his words on his  Comment  on  Matth.  18. Wee go into the Congregation, there are exhortations, praiers, chastisements, and anon approved Elders take their place.  Cyprian  saith, I received writeings from the Presbyters,  Donatus, Honatus  and  Cardius,  but alone could not rescribe, since I determined from the beginning of my Office to do nothing of mine own head without the consent of the
 Sine consensu plebis nibil,  &c. Cypr. l. 3. Ep. 10. in fine.  people. 
 Eusebius  also lastly record's that  Natalius  who was seduced by  Asclepiodotus,  having seen his Errors,
 Euseb.  Eccles. Hist. lib. 5.  besought the Church with waterish eyes and wet cheeks to compassionate and pardon him. 
 For further satisfaction in this particular, notable is that confession which was ingenuously acknowledged by Episcopacie it self: for as M r   M.  relate's in his explication of the Covenant, the Arch-bishops, Bishops and whole Clergie of  England  declared to King  Henrie  the 8 th  and subscribed it with their own hands, that PRELACIE was but a HUMANE POLITICK DEVICE of the FATHERS. 
 2.  It is Pure.  The Scepter of Christs Kingdom is a
 righteous Scepter, it vindicate's the Word from irreverence and contempt, hedgeth in the Sacrament from prophanation and promiscuousness, while Spiritual railes keep back notorious offenders that Christ may not the second time bee betraied into the hands of Sinners; with this the Church would bee as foul as  Augea 's Stable; it would bee with  Austin Porcorum hara & colluvies rabidorum Canum,  a Swine-stie, a companie of mad dogs; or as Christ saith, a meer  den of Theeves. 
 2.  It is Spiritual,  both in respect of the
 
 Office. 
 Officers. 
 
 1.  Of the Office,  which consist's 
 1. In  Admonition.  1 Thes. 5.14. 
 2.  Rebuke,  Luc. 17.4. 
 3. In  Censure,  Matt. 18.19. Joh. 20.21. Tit. 3.10. 
 2.  Of the Officers,  which are 
 1.  Pastors.  Eph. 4.11, 
 2.  Elders.  Acts 14.23. 1 Tim. 5.3. 
 3.  Deacons.  1 Tim. 3.8. 
 4 ly .  It is safe,  for there bee two things which extremely hazard the Church, 
 1.  Want of the Lord 's  Supper  which Christ commanded to have often in remembrance of him. 
 2.  Fals Brethren  who lye in wait to seduce,  Gal.  5.12. the tolerateing whereof was dangerous to  Galatia, Pergamus,  and  Thiatyra. 
 But som may say can not the Lord's Supper bee administred without Government? 
 Yes; but if the people  press  in as  profanely to the Table  as the  Tavern,  not so much hungring after Christ, as the Elements, that is not to discern the Lord's bodie: or surcharged with surfetting or drunkenness, as in  Paul 's time; or with wrath and malice, as in our times; are these worthie
 to receive? are the Seales, Seales, of life or of death to such? and where there are many such will they bee staved off by a Minister alone without thoughts not onely of disdain, but of revenge? 
 For my part I am resolved on the negative, and lest any should think it to bee  Juvenilis Calor,  a flash rather of youth then of maturity, let him read what  Chrysostom  and  Calvin  determine in the like kinde. 
 Chrysostom  saith, it is neither Diadem, nor Purple,
 Major his nobis est poteflas.  Chrys. Hom. in Matth.  nor Magistrate shall move mee to give the Sacrament to an ungodly Person; wee  have more Power in the Church then they. 
 Juravi mihi potiù sta tumesse m rtem oppetere quàm ut s cram Dominî Caeuam &c.  Cal. Epist. ad Virct. p. 164.  Besides the example of  Theodosius  the Emperor excommunicated by him for his slaughter at  Thessalonica  fully declare's it. 
 Calvin  that famous Divine, who is by  Zanchius  called  Galliae Apostolus,  the Apostle of  France,  saith, I have sworn, I have determined rather to die then so vilely to profane the holy Supper of the Lord, as by giving it to unworthie Members. 
 5.
 †  Hac disciplinâ adeò nemo exim batur, ut principes quoque unà cum plebeis ad eum ferendam subjicerent.  Cal. Instit.   It is Impartial:  Ministers and Elders are subjected to the Government as well as others, the Judges themselvs are subject to judgment, as  Trajan  nobly spake in the Knighting of a Souldier,  If I do well, use this sword for mee; if not, against mee:  the Government is for the prais of all that do wel: for the discouragement of those that do evill. 
 6.  It is Aristocratical:  I call it so not in respect of
 Christum si respexeris, Monarchia dicitur; nam ipse est Rex noster, qui sanguine sue Ecclesiam acquisivit. Sunt verò in Ecclesiâ qui legatione funguntur Presbyteri, Doctores & alii qui praesunt, quorum respectu meritò potest dici Aristocratia.  Pet. Maryr. loc. com. Class. 3. lib. 5. pag. 783.  Christ, who is a Monarchical head, but 1.  in respect of us who  are Ministerial Officers; Councels and Parliaments are Aristocratical: 2.  by way of opposition  to all Papal and Lordly preheminence counting with  Gregorie  in his Epist. to  Maurice  the Emperor, that hee that  name's himself universal Bishop is the forerunner of Antichrist.  Let the best
 men bee ruleing-Elders, and the best Ministers Preaching-Elders and this will produce the best effects. 
 Thus (honored Gentlemen, Patriots and Magistrates!) I have endeavored a little to possess you with a candid Interpretation of the present Government; and to blow your zeal to an higher flame. If the caus bee God's, leave the success to him: do but look on and stand still if you dare not advance and go forward, and see the work of the Lord over in it, and by it God is never wanting to his Church if shee bee not wanting to him and her self. Wee complain of sins and corruptions, and crie out, O the times! but as fondly as the Mother of her childe, which will not use the Rod a sanctified means for recoverie: 'tis not for us to say with  Lot  Nay my brethren do not so wickedly; nor with  Eli  It is no good report I hear of you. 
 If a  garden  were  over-spread  with  weeds;  if a  Commonwealth  with  Theevs;  if a  Familie  with  stubborn Sons  and  Servants,  what must bee don, think you? would you not as the Lord command's, bring them out to the Congregation and make them examples, that all may hear and fear, and do no more wickedly: Bad men brought forth bad times; let us begin to reform the men and the times shall bee innocent, els the times like the ground are accursed for our sakes. 
 Gentlemen! Center not your actions upon your self, bee not emptie vines and self-bearing trees, build not your own houses and let the hous of God lie waste; do somthing for Christ, for his Church, for the Commonwealth, that both Church and Common-wealth may know yee live not onely a  vegetative  and  sensitive,  but a  rational  and  spiritual Life. 
 I confess I am plain with you, but I may say with  David 
 Is there not a caus? hath hee not don the like,  Psal.  2.10. Hee take's notice indeed that the Heathen rage, and the people imagin vainly, yet the totall application of subjection to Christ is pressed home to Kings and Rulers, bee wise now therefore.  Ministers  must bee like  bees; painful, profitable,  carrying their  stings  about them as well as  honie.  Christ gave his Apostles  Tongues,  but they were  fierie;  a  Sword,  but 'twas  two-edged. John  was not onely a  shineing  but a  burning Light:  Paul's  presence  was  contemptible,  but his  Epistles powerful.  I might indeed have qualified som expressions, in respect of that great respect and reverence I bear to all of you; but becaus dutie must prevail above interest, and the discharge of  Conscience  above  Courtship,  I have therefore set an edg upon the Government, intending by the sincere performance of my own Office to oblige you all to the serious and speedy accomplishment of your new engagements; and thus I commend you to God, and earnestly beg a blessing on your favorable assistance to the Caus of Christ, whose unworthie Servant I am, and for his sake 
 Your 's  in all Obligations, both of Love and Service.  WILLIAM LEY. 

