
 
 
 TO THE HONORABLE House of COMMONS Assembled In PARLIAMENT. 
 W Hen  Joshua  was by Jericho, there stood a man over Iosh. 5. 13, 14▪  against him with his sword drawn in his hand;  and  Joshua  seemeth in a military way to examine him,  Art thou for us, or for our adversaries? Nay  (saith he)  but as Captain of the host of the Lord am I now come.  This answer maketh him fall on his face to the earth and worship; acknowledging Him for Commander in chief, and humbly subjecting himself to Him as His Lieftenant Generall, ready to receive His Commands:  What saith my Lord unto his servant?  It is one of the greatest▪ honours the sons of men are capable of here on earth, to follow the Ensignes of this victorious Captain of the Lords host▪ and to wait upon his triumphant chariot. If herein the Lord hath honoured You above many thousands of your brethren, it concerneth You much to imitate  Joshua▪  First, as he questioned the Son of God whom he knew not in that apparition at the first sight; so ye knowing Christ to be that Captain of the Lords host, who will subdue all things to Himself, ought in an holy jealousie to search your own hearts, and to examine all your counsels and proceedings: Are we in these things for Christ, or for His adversaries, for Him or against Him? Secondly, I beseech You be willing to lye lowe before him and to say, What saith our Lord unto His servants? Ye expect not His immediate voice, and therefore in all humility hear Him by His Ambassadours, when they speak according to their Commission, as if His mandates were delivered unto You by His own mouth. Admirable is that of  Valentinian  recorded Theod.  . 4. cap. 6.  by  Theodoret,  when  Ambrose  had freely reproved some things amisse
 
in his government, said the Emperour, I knew well thy zeal and courage, and therefore was so far from opposing, that I was forward to promote thine election to this pastorall charge: Go on therefore to cure the diseases of our Souls according to the prescript of Gods Word▪ And it is reported of  Albert  Duke of Mickleburgh▪ that when a flattering Courtier sought to incense him against a Preacher for dealing roundly with him; He told him, he loved the man so much the better, and willed him in his name to give him thanks for his pious Sermon▪ If Ye follow Christ as your Captain, not turning to the right hand or to the left, who knoweth whether after six yeers compassing the w ls of Jericho, they may not on the seventh fall to the ground before You. The Lord Jesus direct You by His Spirit, and gird You with His strength, to endure unto the end, that no man take Your Crown. 
 So prayeth
 Your unworthy Servant in the Lord, JOHN MAYNARD. 

