
 
 
 TO THE LORDS and COMMONS Assembled in PARLIAMENT at Westminster. 
 May it please the honourable Houses, 
 I F the miseries which we have suffered in the Province of Munster could be described, they would be as farre short of what they are, as our ability to right our selves is short of our desires; and though our past sufferings have been extreme great, yet we are like to be much more opprest, unlesse the honourable Houses of Parliament doe take us into their protection, and send us some speedy reliefe. 
 The severall Agents we imployed before we submitted to the Cessation did often acquaint you with the heavy burthen we groaned under; and when we saw our lamentable condition did onely produce your pitty, but could not your reliefe, which was diverted by the War in England; we esteemed it farre more advantagious for the cause to submit to the Cessation, and by that meanes preserve our Garrisons, then by a ruinous obstinacy to continue in a War, which we knew not how to maintain ten daies. Neither can this action be imputed to any desire of having a peace with our bloody enemies; for if we had had any such design, upon the first or second failing
 
of our supplies, we might have embraced that opportunity; but we saw Gods glory and the honour and advantage of our Countrey too deeply engaged to condescend to any thing that had the face of a peace, as long as possibly we were able to maintaine a War. 
 If we thought the honourable Houses had any greater  terest then the protecting of the opprest Protestants,  e might represent divers great advantages unto them;   more then a probability of the Adventurers gaining  eir purchased right, which otherwise is utterly lost,  d many other advantages which we will not specifie,  cause we know your justice to be so great, that no ing can adde to your pious care, where the Protestant  eligion is so deeply engaged. 
 But if through your great necessities we should faile on your relied on ayd, the World shall see how much we value the vindicating of Gods glory, and the honour of the English Nation above our lives and fortunes. 
 Neither is the payment of this duty the onely advantage we propound unto our selves by this action, for we firmely hope, and humbly desire this honourable assembly, that our unexpressible wrongs and miseries might be a rise for you to send unto his Majesty for the concluding of a happy peace in England, without which we apprehend this Warre cannot be prosecuted as it ought to be. We have likewise sent our most humble des res unto his Majesty to the same effect, whom we hope God will direct in that way which will so much conduce to the establishment of the Protestant Religion, and the happinesse of the English Nation. 
 We will not trouble you with an over-tedious Letter, since this enclosed Declaration which we humbly present unto you will acquaint you with our actions and intentions. We have likewise sent our humble desires,
 
which we make no doubt will be found as just as our designs; since both shall be for the settlement of the true Protestant Religion, and the maintenance of our Laws and Liberties; for the defence of which we have vowed to sacrifice the lives and fortunes of those which for your absolute security (if you should doubt the reality of our intentions) do offer, when any of your ships shall arrive before our harbour, all, or any particular person of us will goe aboard, till you have secured your selves of all or any our Garrisons. But we strongly hope this wise Assembly will distinguish betwixt the effects of necessity & dishonesty; and impute our submitting to the Cessation to the first, being too miserable already in our sufferings, without encreasing them by a needlesse jealousie of the last. 
 These our miseries and infinite sufferings we most humbly submit to your judicious considerations, not doubting but when you have well weighed them you will send a speedy redresse to 
 Your most humble and affectionate servants, 
 
 The Lord of  Inchequin,  chiefe commander of the Protestant forces in Munster. 
 Lord of  Brohgill,  governour of Youghall. 
 Sir  William Fenton,  K t . 
 Sir  Percy Smith,  K t . Lieut. col. and Deputy governour of Youghall. 
 Lieutenant-col.  Wil. Brocket,  Governour of Kinsale. 
 Lieutenant-col.  Thomas Serle,  Governour of Bandon, &c. 
 Serjeant-major  Muschamp,  Governour of the Fort of Corke. &c. 
 
 Corke,  July 18. 1644. 
 
 
 
 

