
 
 
 TO My deare Wife THE LADY  STAPYLTON. 
 My Love, 
 P Erhaps the Wits may be as much offended at men for writing to, as Walking with their owne Wives: neither is in  fashion  I confesse, but
 
sure they would exceedingly well-become our Age. Indeed  Gifts  between Man and Wife, were prohibited by the  Roman  Legislator, yet hee intended not to destroy Kindness by a Law, but to declare Community in Marriage, where  both  have equall Proprieties, in that which  either  is possessed of. And even in reason (the ground of Law) he that makes a Present to his Wife, offers an Injury in a Complement: for he intitles her to that by his  Gift, 
 
which is hers in her owne  Right. 
 I will not therefore so much transgresse, as to say, I  give  thee my English of  Leander's  Epistle and  Hero's  answer: for that were to imply, an expectation of  receiving  Thankes, for what was thy own as soone as mine. All that (by praefixing of thy Name) I pretend to, is first, to shew the World how sensible I am of thy Love, expressed to mee in  both fortunes,  the  later  being lively
 
represented in these Letters, that past betweene  Husband  and  Wife  divided by a  Storme.  In the next place, I shew thee, how I spent part of that time, when I had nothing left but (what Fortune could not take away) some houres for study, wherein I enjoyed my selfe as much, as I could, in thy absence. Lastly, I do an honour to my Authour, for I dare boldly say, the strictest and most rigid Modesty will not scruple to read a passion writ by  OVID, 
 
where his  name  is placed so near to thine, which nothing  unchast  durst ever be so  impudent  to approach. And if my Augury deceive me not, the Goodness of the Times is such, that the Lady I send to beare thee company,  Hero,  will be studyed by thy Sex in generall; her vertue drawn into President, and the greatest Modesties discovered in the greatest Beauties; teaching the bold Pretenders to their favour, to court them, not in lewd unmanly Verse (the  new-sickness  of
 
the mind) but in  Leander's primitive  way of wooing, timerous blushes, noble undertakings, and gallant performances: but all of the vertuous ancient straine, such as  this,  wherein  Ovid  himself presumed not to use one lascivious syllable: and if the Muse of so incomparable a Wit, presumed not upon a looser Flight, when his subject was the faire dead  Sestian:  how dare our puny  Aretines  draw a wanton line, when they write of  Hero's  yet alive? I hope this Patterne
 
will ruin their Designe; to which good purpose, if my poore  Endeavours  may conduce, I must account them seasonably bestowed. Howsoever I shall not repent me, since they are crowned with so desired successe, that they publish me, as I am, 
 Thy most affectionate HUSBAND ROBERT STAPYLTON. 

