
 
 
 TO THE Reverend Assembly of Divines and Commissioners of the Church of  Scotland  now sitting at  Westminster. 
 Reverend Sirs, 
 W Hereas all of you in generall are concerned, and some of you particularly named in the Booke I deal with, the world might happily have expected a joint endeavour, where there was a common interest: That I therefore (whilst you are otherwise fully employed) should undertake this taske, I desire may not bee imputed by you or any to an over weening conceipt of mine own abilities: for had it fallen to some of your lots, I should have hoped the Church of Christ might have reaped more fruit, then it is like to doe by my poore and weake endeavours. But my personall ingagement to assert that truth of God which I had held forth in a Printed Sermon,
 
which my Learned Antagonist (passing by other bookes written by other men on the same argument) was pleased to single out to combate with, and to lay out his strength upon, hath called me forth to stand up in this controversie, not as your Champion, but as an affectionate friend to the truth, which we are all called upon earnestly to contend for; in which  Jude 3.  conflict as I cannot but feare that you will easily discover my weaknesse; so I cannot but hope that you will not finde me either so foiled by mine adversary, or deserted by God, whose cause I plead, as not to have sufficiently answered that booke, which hath obtained to bee called in Print,  The strongest Shield and   Mr.  John Goodwins  answer to Mr.  Edwards Ga gr.  p. 20. Psal. 76. 3.   Buckler wherewith that cause was ever protected;  but in Salem God of old brake both Sword and Shield, and if he hath done the like now, the weake hand which hee hath made use of, serveth onely to point at that mightie arme of his, which hath gotten himselfe the victory. Truth, triumph and the Churches peace I have had in mine eye, and have desired to carry meeknesse and love even to him, whose opinion I fight with, all along in my heart and pen: what ever measure my
 
former writing met with from him, I have endeavored to looke upon his with a neither bloodshot nor loftie eye; passion blinds the one, and pride makes the other oft-times overlook that truth which a lowly eye seeth clearly at a nearer distance: sure I am, the wrath of man worketh not the righteousnesse of God, whilst  James 1. 20.  the meeke hee will guide in judgement, and teach his way. VVhat herein God hath inabled  Psal. 25. 9.  me to doe, I willingly submit to the Churches censure, and humbly present to you, not as any way worthy of you, but onely as a publick testimony of my reverence and gratitude for all the refreshings of spirit, and that abundance of spirituall grace I have found from the hand of God, whilst I have had the happinesse to sit among you; for a yet more plentifull effusion whereof upon you, to the happy setling at length of these distracted Churches in truth and peace, is the prayer of 
 Your unworthy brother, and servant in the Lords work
 Steven Marshall. 
 Aprill  2. 1646. 

