
 
 
 TO THE RIGHT R. FATHER B r.  IOHN GENNINGS FIRST PROVINCIALL AND RESTORER Of the English Prouince of Friar Minours: and now actuall Prouinciall of the same. 
 R EV. FATHER. 
 Sithence the common practise of writers hath now so prevailed, that each one almost, either, for patronage
  of their workes, or to manifest their respects, Dutie, and Gratitude, is accustomed, to present them, vnder the shelter of such persons, who by their acceptance may equalise their labours and paines; I hope it will not seeme strange to your R. Paternitie, or to any other; that I haue made choise to present my poore industries, to you; who in all respects may challenge, vnder God, the vtmost of my endeavours; Nay I should offend, if I should attribute the Patronage of this little worke to any, but to you R. Father, who first desired it, and by whose commands I haue vndertaken it. 
 
 Besides if vertuous actions may allure me: I know not where, within your ranke and qualitie, to paralell your heroique deeds: for to omit your progenie; which may adde à probabilite of à vertuous minde: as Aristotle saith. 3. Pol:  Verisimile est praestantiores ac meliores esse eos, qui ex melioribus.  and to speake nothing of the happinesse you enioy, by being Brother to so Glorious à Martyr  M. Edmōd Gennings:  as also of your miraculous conuersion, of your continuall labours, for many yeares in Gods vineyard, for the conversion of soules: your praise and merit, both before
  God and man, hath taken no small degree, in your erecting or rather restoring againe, that sometimes famous Province of the English Friar Minours; wherein haue bene in all sciences, some of the most renowned and learned men of Christendome. Of this Province was  Alexander Hales,  who was called  Doctor Doctorum  and was the first that euer did write Summe of Divinitie. of this Province was  Scotus,  whose fame is spread thorough the whole world, both for his sublime subtilitie, and more than vulgar devotion to our B. Lady: what shall I reckon vp,  Occham, Bachont, Midleon 
  with infinite others, who haue embelished Gods Church with their Doctrine: and strenuously defended it against heresies: to which we may adde; that of three schooles from whence all others almost, deriue their doctrine, to wit, of Thomists, Scotists, and Nominalists: two of them haue had their begiming from men of this Province. Is it not R. Father à great glorie to you, that notwithstand¦ing the violent impetuositie of these our times; God should vse you as an instrument, to make this renowned Province to reviue againe, in our order? but I am confident, greater is your ioy, to see and heare the
  fruicts of your labours; for we may well say of this seeming shrubbe, which you haue planted: that it is  tanquam lignum, quod plantatum est secus decursus aquarum: quod fructum suum dabit in tempore suo.  It is like vnto à Tree planted by the water side whith bringeth forth fruict in due season: for this your tree, was no sooner planted: but it beganne to sprout forth leaues of rare examples; Its root was scarse setled in the ground, but its branches loaded with pietie, deuotion and learning did extend themselues to the gayning of soules: as soone as the waters of grace had watered
  it, the heavens did receiue its fruict: I meane amongst others, those glorious Martyrs who for Gods honour, and for his Church, haue lately giuen their liues in sacrifice; of whom according to the breuitie of an Epistle: I will speake a word or two. 
 Father  Thomas Bullaker  vpon his arriuall into England being taken and emprisoned, cōtracted such diseases, through miserie and want, which he suffered in prison; that he neuer had his health after: yet: the zeale of soules, which brought him vnto his country; forced him with vndaunted courage to come to london, in the greatest
  rage of Persecution, to helpe the poore distressed Catholiques: which he did both spiritually and temporally; vntill such time, that being taken at Masse, whilst he was saying  Gloria in Excelsis:  he was emprisoned againe, condemned, hanged, drawne and quartered, when his soule did ascend to sing eternally a canticle of Ioy in heauen. 
 Father  Paule  of  S. Magdalen  alias  Henry Heath,  twise Guardian of your Convent at Douay, and once Commissarie Provinciall in these parts, and long since Reader of Diuinitie: after hauing well profited in his studies in Cambridge; by
  reading of the holy Fathers, and disputing with others; he was the occasion of the conversion of many, wherof some became Religious: and after God touching his heart, he did reconcile himselfe vnto the Catholicke church and comming beyond seas to Douay he entred into the order of our holy Father  S. Francis:  and therein liued with so great austeritie, that indeede it was more to be admired than imitated: for to omit his bloudy disciplines, wherewith most parts of the house are marked; his lying on the ground continually; his haire-cloaths of of seuerall sorts; his chaines,
  girdells, and bracelets of Iron: his life was in a manner, à continuall fast; for long time together, vntill Obedience commanded the cōtrary, he did take nothing but bread and small drinke; vnlesse it were once or twise à weeke; and then in such manner, that if he could, he would put ashes or dust into it: but aboue all; it is to be admired, how piously he spent his time; for you should neuer find him, but either at his study, or else in vocall or mentall prayer; and to talke with him of other matters, was out of his element: and notwithstanding that alwayes he was imployed in exteriour offices of the house;
  Reading both Diuinitie, and Philosophie, hearing confesssions; visiting the sicke, especially the poore: sometimes till 10. 11. or 12. à clocke at night: yet scarce would he be absent from the Quire at midnight; or àny other office of the Quire at any time: In fine none can better expresse his great desire of gaining soules, and obtayning martyrdome; than he himselfe who felt the burning fire of his zeale, which he hath manifested in his owne writings; which in time convenient shalbe put to the presse: briefly, he was singular in his austeritie; rare in his pietie, excessiue in his zeale, most
  humble in his owne conceit: yet as learned in the eies of all that knew him. I cannot let passe the last passage, which I and many more did marke in him: that although he was much retired, and seldome discoursed of any thing, vnlesse he were vrged, for that he tooke no content in company: yet at the time when he had gotten leaue to goe into England; he was so much altered, and changed, as if he had bene another man, or as one who was not able to cōtaine his ioy, but in actions, voice ad countenāce one might iudge what his heart possessed: and so after a most austere, penitentiall,
  and humble life; much admired, esteemed and honoured of all: he did offer vp a voluntarie sacrifice of his life for Gods cause; that he might reape an eternall crowne in heauen; which as we piously belieue, and may gather out of his owne writings; he obtained by the mediation of our B. Lady: to whom he was singularly devoted, and from whom he had receiued many favours. 
 Of  Father Francis Bell  (who was formerly Confessour to your Religious women of the third Order, Guardian of your Convent aforesaid, and Provinciall of Scotland: and a
  little before his death againe elected Guardian of your said Convent of Douay) I neede say no more than, what each one that knew him would say, that he was a  true Franciscan,  or  child of our holy Father S. Francis,  & that consequētly he was fitting fuell, to satisfie the burning rage of Gods enemies: and to make a pleasant holocaust to God, by sacrificing his life for his sake. Here I may apply the example of that famous Captaine  Epimanon-das,  who did not so much glory in his great victories, as that his parents, from whom he had his being, did take pleasure and content therein: as
  Plutarch reporteth. I for my part (and I belieue such is the opinion of all your children whom you haue begotten in Christ Iesus) doe not so much rejoice for the great glorie that redounds to our Province hereby; as that you the Father of vs all, with pleasure and content haue seene the fruict of your labours, 
 If Dutie may challenge it, sure it must be yours by all right: for whatsoeuer we doe, is yours: you R. Father being our first Father, and vnder God the sole beginner and worker of our being in this happy state of Religion: for if Vlisses was iudged to haue right to the
  Armour of Achilles, because he was the occasion of his comming to the wars of Troy, surely you may challenge whatsoeuer act praise-worthy may be performed by any of vs: and therfore if any haue deserved praise, in labouring for the conversion of soules, in teaching & instructing others, in writing, in vertuous examples or any other heroicke acts, they are yours; and are but so many additions to your Glorie. 
 If gratitude for benefits receiued may moue me: who can better deserue it, than your R. Paternitie? who by your labour haue sustained, maintained,
  and conserued vs for diuers yeares: truly if we proue vngratfull, euen the very wals of your two erected Convents will crie shame on vs, and giue testimonie of our ingratitude. Now although each of vs haue this generall obligation: yet in a more particular manner, must I acknowledge it; and therfore most willingly doe I xoffer this, and all my labours as yours by all right and duty: wherfore it resteth, only that you vouchsafe R. F. to patronize and accept of this exposition of the Rule (which Pope Leo the tenth hath accomated for Religious persons of the third Order of our holy
  Father  S. Francis)  which I haue made and composed for your Religious daughters of that Order, now residing at Neuport: whose Religious Simplicitie, prompt Obediēce, peace full Amitie, and regular Observance, may crowne your old age with joy and content; which I pray, may alwayes continue both in this life and in the world to come Thus he wisheth who alwayes remaineth. 
 RIGHT REV. FATHER. 
 Your poore Beadsman and vnworthy Child. B r.  ANGELVS FRANCIS. 

