
 
 
 TO THE RIGHT HONOVRABLE  LORDS,  The worthy Members of the HONOURABLE House of COMMONS,  AND  The Learned and Religious DIVINES, now assembled to consult about matters of  RELIGION. 
 T His  Sermon  might have been  entertained  from the  Pulpit,  and now from the  Presse,  as  Pharez  was from the  womb, Gen. 38.29.  with a,  Quàm erupisti, how hast thou broken forth?  were it not knowne to this  Assembly,  that the  Parliament  had designed another, both in  yeares  and  all Intellectuall and spirituall abilities,  far more fit for the  solemn work  of so  solemne a day,  in so  solemne  and  Reverend an Consisting of both Houses of Parliament & the Divines all joyning in humiliation and prayer.  Assembly. But bodily infirmities compelling him with  Zarah  to  draw back his hand,  the work was (I know not by what providence) devolved on me,  . I was to that quire of  Mourners  and  Intercessours,  but as the grashopper was to Hujus meminit & Strabol.  6.  & Clem. Al. in Protreptico al gentes, & Phot. in Ep. ad Joen. Patricium.   Eunomius  his harp;  quae Citharae jugo insidens ruptae chordae sonum expleret. 
 
 The same  Authority  (which I am resolved to obey,  usque ad Aras ) that  commanded  mee to  preach  then,  commands  me now to make  publique  to the  eyes of all,  what  then  was committed  to the ears of not many;  when the same  Authority  shall command other  things  that have since been spoken and  transacted  in your  Assembly  to see the  Light,  I doubt not but all sober-minded men, that have not been made drunk with the cup of Romes fornication, will acknowledge you have with a  single eye  sought  Truth  with  peace,  and  union  with  Reformation. 
 It is ( Men, Brethren  and  Fathers ) a great work that  God  hath called you to set your heads, and hearts, and hands unto, to rescue  truth  from the jaws of those  monstrous errours,  that had almost devoured it; to disburthen the worship of God of those  corruptions,  that have so long clogged and defiled it; to advise of, and propound such a Government in the Church, as may be most  agreeable  to Gods  word,  most conformed to the pattern in the  Mount,  and to the  practises  of the best  Reformed Churches;   ; Had our God cast you upon this work in the most pacate  times,  and among a  People  the most prepared for  Reformation  that ever any were, yet (in it selfe considered) such is the infinite weight of your  employment  as might even swallow up all your thoughts. But then to consider how  unprepared  the hearts of  people  are for that which is the  work  of this  age,  and this  Assembly, Reformation,  which hath been represented to  Prince  and  People  under the odious notion of  Brownisme, Anabaptisme, Church Anarchy,
 Confusion;  in so much that with many,  endeavours  and  assays  of Reformation will find no better entertainment, then  Hezekiahs  messengers of Reformation did,  2 Chron. 30.10. when the people laughed them to scorn,  and  mocked them;  Nay, with some worse, for so enragedly doe some  burn  after their  Idolatrous  wayes, and so  mad  are they  upon their own inventions, Jer. 50.38.  that deny them these, and it is to be feared you shall finde them in the temper the  Abezrites  were, scarce any thing will pacify them, but the bloud of those that  have cast down the altar of  Baal,  and cut down the grove that was by it;  Iudg.  6.30.  Doe not  Multitudes  cry already upon the  disuse  of some  Ceremonies,  and the  displacing  of some Superstitious  Priests?  do they not cry with  Micah, Judg. 18.24.  Yee have taken away our Gods and our Priests, and what have we more? This makes the times so calamitous, as we may say of them with the Learned Rivet.  In multis certè infoelicissima sunt nostra Tempora, in quibus in pessum omnia ruunt, & quasi transversum ire videntur. Concutiuntur Regna, & Respublicae; tumultibus omnia perstrepunt, & seditionibus; caedibus terra polluitur; & quod malum omnium malorum fons est, clamant peccata, et coelum provocant; profligatis ferè moribus honestis, & vitiis latè quasi apertâ portâ erumpentibus. Pruriunt ingenia multorum, & in rebus Divinis ita se gerunt & adeò licenter, ut quod olim in populo Ebraeo (quibus temporibus non erat Rex in Israele) quisque quod rectum videbatur in oculis suis faciebant,  Iud.  17.6. Sic multi sunt qui nullis repagulis
 continentur, & fidem in dies mutans, quam dum multiplicant, amittunt. Alios vetustâ socordiâ detentos dum nullam mutationem admittunt in bonum, ita dementat superstitio, ut in monitores insurgant, ne dum ut eos patienter audiant.  All this proclaims the work of  Reformation  the more  necessary,  but withall the more  difficult. 
 Against these  difficulties  what have you to  encourage  you?  : were yee encompassed as sometimes  Elisha  was, with an hoast of armed men, yet might yee say as he did there,  They that be with us are more then they that be against us. 
 For first, Revel. 19 14.  with you are all the  Armies in heaven:  All the  Saints  and  Churches  of Christ are with you,  striving with you by their prayers,  (not only in reference to  your persons,  but to your  employments ) for protection, guidance, blessing. The appearing of Christ in the beauty of Reformation among us, may be said to be  the desire of all  (Christian)  Nations. 
 Secondly, not only so, but yee have the prayers of those that have been before us. For verily many Prophets and righteous men have desired to see the things which ye see, Favour me the use of this expression by way of allusion.  & have not seen them;  viz.  a  Parliament  resolved upon a more thorough  Reformation;  an Assembly called to debate & advise about the establishing of Doctrine and worship, and the Government of the Church in a more pure & regular manner; with how many tears and prayers did our Forefathers seek this at the hands of God? The first fruits of which prayers we (who are entred upon their labours) have already tasted, and shall reap in full answers, in due time if we faint not. 
 
 Thirdly, you have the promise of our Lord Iesus Christ, Mat.  18.20. Where two or three are met together in my Name, there am I in the middest of them.  To be met together in the Name of Christ, implies  3.  things,  1 o . Convenire ex vocatione. Camero in Myrothe .   2 o . Convenire animo sequendi praescriptum Dei. 3 o . Ita ut unusquisque diffidat sibi, & soli Deo fidat.  And if ever any in all these particulars were met together in the  Name of Christ,  then are you, and therefore may with a holy humble confidence challenge this promise of our Lord Iesus,  to be in the midst among you:  Christ being in the midst of you, implies not only his  adesse,  but his  praeesse  too: as Psalm  82.1.  And if God be thus with us, who can be against us? Rom.  8. 
 Fourthly, some  sweet, encouraging, engaging  experiences, we have had of the  accomplishment  of this promise. He must have a heart more  ignorant  and  unbeleeving  then the  Apostles Idiot,  that should come in and be an eare-witnesse of your proceedings and not  worship God and report   ,  That God is in you of a truth.  Verily I have often from my heart wished that your  greatest Adversaries and Traducers  might be witnesses of your Learned, grave, pious  debates,  which were able to  silence,  if not  convert Malignity it selfe. 
 Goe on in this your might; Judges 6.14.  hath not the Lord sent you? is not the Lord with you?  goe on in this your might. Pergite quo coepistis pede.  In that  Spirit  of  wisdome,  and  Love,  and  zeal for Truth, wherein  you have  proceeded  hitherto,  goe on still,  to Love the  Truth  and  Peace.  Peace is precious, and so
 is every grain and selvage of Gods truth. It was a saying of Basil. Mag. and it well resembles him,  , &c.  qui sacris literis innutriti sunt, ne unicam quidem syllabam Divinorum Dogmatum prodere sustinent, sed pro his omnia, si opus sit, genera mortis libenter subeunt. 
 The Lord strengthen your  hands  and  hearts  unto the great  work  that lies before you, raise you above all discouragements and  oppositions,  fill you more and more with a Spirit of Wisdome, discerning, Resolution, Courage, Zeale, faithfulnesse; make you in this work of Reforming his Church as  Zachariah  and  Haggai  were inre-building the Temple,  ut Ecclesiam hanc, quam invenistis minus quam Lateritiam, reddatis plusquam Marmoream: Suet. in vitâ Aug.  which is the sincere desire and prayer of him, 
 who is Lesse then the least of all Gods mercies and Employments, MATTH. NEVVCOMEN. 

