
 
 
 TO THE HONOVRABLE THE HOVSE OF COMMONS now Assembled in PARLIAMENT. 
 I F there be any  History  in all the  Booke  of  God  that may  paralell  our times, sure it is this of  Nehemiah. 
 The People of  Israel  though delivered from their  long  and  sorrowfull captivity  in  Babylon:  yet long it was ere they could see  Truth  and  peace  established in their  Church  and  Common-wealth,  the  Temple  of  God  reedified, the  worship  of  God  restored, the  walls  of the  holy Citty  repaired, the  Lords Sabbaths  sanctified, the  Priests  in their  severall Orders  and  stations  attending the  service  of  their God:  Long it was ere matters of  Church  and  State  attained unto a  Beautifull Regularity; c  Pembl.  some reckoning above a  a 100.  other above  150. Perk.  Chronol. Red. cap.  Anno.  3431.  Secundus  Nehemiah  praefectus, Anno Mund.  3537. Calvetius  &  Helvicus,  redit populi,  3418.  Secund  Nehem.  praefect. Anno  3575.  some  200. yeares. d The vulgar  Latine  and the English  Geneva,  make  Ezra  the writer of this Story, but it is a mistake. Nehem. 1.1. See  Pembl.  Three on sets were given to this great work:  thrice  did the  Lord  raise up and employ blessed and glorious instruments in it before it arrived at it's  perfection.  The first was  Zorobbabel, Ezra 1.  The second was  Ezra, Ezra 7.  The third was  Nehemiah,  the  Author  of this  Booke,  according to the good hand of his God upon him, Neh. 4.2, 3.  with  invincible courage  and  indefatigable patience  against the insolent  scoffes, multiplyed conspiracies Cap. 4.8, 11. cap 6.2, 4.  and  terrifying reports  of his  enemies, Cap. 4. cap. 12. cap 6.6, 9.  against the  treacheries  of some of his owne  Brethren and Nobles,  and their base  compliances  with the  publick Adversaries Cap. 3.5. cap. 6.10, 17.  against the  murmurings  of the  people Cap. 4.10.5.1, 2, &c.  with great  expence  of his  estate Cap. 5.8, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18.  and  hazard  of his  life Cap. 4.23.6.2.  carried on this great  work,  and gave it a  full  and  blessed period,  to the  comfort  of the  Jewes  and terrour of their  enemies Chap. 6.16 
 
 To  paralell  this: the  people  of  England,  though through the  mercy  of  God  they have bin in a gracious measure delivered from the spirituall  Captivity  of  Romish Babylon,  which our fore-Fathers were enthralled in so long a time; yet now  almost a 100  years have passed over us, since that  first deliverance,  and yet we see not that  purity  of  Truth,  that  beauty  of  worship,  that orderlines of administrations, that  strength  of  discipline,  as  wals  and  bulwarks  about this our  Jerusalem,  which hath bin the  desire, prayer, expectation  of us & the ages that were before us. God seems to me to proceed by the same  steps  with us, that he did with the people of the  Jews,  and hath made  3 visible  and  memorable on-sets  upon the  Reformation  and  restauration  of his Church among us. The first by that famous  Prince,  the miracle and glory of his  people  &  age, Edward  the  6.  of ever blessed memory, whose beginnings though exceeding  hopeful  and  promising  were soon stopt by acountermand, as it were from the God of Heaven, as  Zerobabells  beginnings were by letters from the King Ezr 4.23, 24. . Soon after the  work  was  revived  againe by his deare and gratious sister Q.  Elizabeth,  in whose hands the Lord caused the worke to prosper to  some further perfection,  yet not unto that  beauty  and  glory  we hope our God intends to raise it to therfore this  3 d  time  hath God raised up  Instruments  for the advancing of this worke, even your selves,  Honorable  and  Beloved:  who though you have met with the same oppositions in this  great imployment  that worthy  Nehemiah  did: Malignant  scoffs,  bloudy  conspiracies, reports  full of various  terrours, desertions  of some of your  Brethren, murmurings  of not a few of the people: yet in the midst of  Armies  and  changes  of  Oppositions  and  discouragements,  have hitherto with  unwearied patience  and  undauntable Resolutions,  not without great  expence  of your  estates  and  hazard  of your
 lives,  attended upon this worke now these two years. At the present to the great griefe of all loyall and honest hearts, we see you in the same posture that  Nehemiah  and his assistants were, Cap.  4.17. Every one with the one of his hands working, and with the other holding his weapon,  a sad condition: yet go on, the work of  reforming  the Church is Gods: he  called  you to it,  he  will  maintain  and defend you in it, he will give perfection to it,  God  is not as  Man,  that he should begin to build, and not be able to finish. 
 The  sutablenesse  of this  History  to our  times,  invited my thoughts (upon Summons received to this service) to looke into this  Book,  and see if there were not something there might  fit  the  Day,  and the sutablenesse of that portion of Scripture, which is the  Basis  of this ensuing Discourse unto the Day, concluded my thoughts upon this Text. My  desire  and  prayer  was, that I might speake something that  might give glory  to  God  for the  manifold  and  great Deliverances  he had  wrought for us,  and something that might give  encouragement to your selves  in the great things you are to  work for God.  This latter part of my  desire  was intercepted by a  feare  of consuming too much of that  time,  which (though your  Piety  could willingly have bestowed upon the  worke of Praise-offering ) yet the  extreme necessities  of State, could hardly  spare.  This made me  silence,  much of what I had  prepared  to  speake,  both in the  Explicatory  and  Applicatory  parts of the  Sermon:  which yet (seeing it is your pleasures to command what you heard to the Presse) waits now with the rest upon you. I dare not thinke there is any thing,  either in the one or in the other, that can  adde  unto your  light:  if any thing  spoken  or  written  may  excite  or  encrease  your  heat,  I shall enjoy much of the end I propounded in this Service. I dare not undertake to  direct  in any thing, if in any thing, I
 may  erect  your  spirits  in  times  so full of  distempers,  with a  Christian  holy  dedignation  of all  oppositions  to carry on the great businesse of the Lord Iesus, in  establishing Religion, Reforming the Church, rooting out Popery.  I have enough, if I faile of this, it is the  sin  of my  infirmity,  not my  intention. 
 Luther  in sad tumultuous times was wont to say to his  Brethren  and those about him,  Come let us sing the 40. Psalme.  Me thinkes you (Right Honourable) in these sad conflicting times may say one to another, come let us reade the  Booke of Nehemiah,  there you may reade  experiences, encouragements, quicknings, directions, presidents,  to spread them before you is not the worke of an Epistle: nor is it needfull, having beene  fully  and  excellently  offered to your view in a Fast Sermon, D r  Gouge  his Sermon.  onely this, as you have made the same preparations to this service you are now upon, Nehem. 1.  which  Nehemiah  did, addressing your selves thereunto by  Fasting  and  Prayer:  and have met the same  varieties  of  oppositions  and  discouragements,  so  persisting  in the same pathes of  Zeale  for  God, compassion  to his  Church, dependance  on his  power, adherence  to his  cause, constancy  in his Service, Doubt not but the same mercifull hand of  his  and your  God  (after your  Nehemiah  like conflicts) shall  crowne  your  faithfullnesse  with  Nehemiahs  successes, which were so glorious, that  when all their enemies heard thereof, Nehem. 6.16.   and all the  Heathen  round about, they were much cast downe in their owne eyes, for they perceived that the worke was wrought of God.  And they that are of you  shall build the old waste places, shall raise up the foundations of many Generations: Isa. 58.12.   and yee shall be called the repairers of the breaches, the restorer of paths to dwell in,  which hath been and is, the Prayer of 
 The least and unworthiest of your and the Churches servants. MATH: NEVVCOMEN. 

