
 
 
 AN  Humble Advertisment to the high Court  OF PARLIAMENT. 
 Right Honorable, and most prudent Patriots; 
 I T is the divine observation of Ecclesiastes the Sonne of David King in Ierusalem, Eccles.  3.1, 7.  To every thing there is a season: A time to keepe silence, and a time to speake. Truly it hath seemed to be a time to keepe silence in some by-gone yeeres in England, when the Amos,  5.13.  prudent Ministers of God were necessitated to keepe silence through the evill of the times, having beene Isa.  29.21.  made offenders for a word, as if their doctrine had beene Amos,  7.10.  conspiracy against the State, and the land not able to beare all their words. Howbeit for the English Isa.  62.1.6.  Zion and Ierusalems sake, the Lords remembrancers could not hold their peace nor keepe silence in secret: but Isa.  26.20.  entring into their chambers, and shutting the doores about them, to hide themselves as it were for a litle moment, have powred out their complaints and supplications before the Lord (who is Psal.  65.2.  a God that heareth prayers, and Math.  6.6.  seeth in secret) waiting on him till the indignatiō should be overpast. But now it seemeth there is a time to speake in England, (And Prov.  15.23.  a word spokē in due season how good is it?) sith 1.  Cor.  16.9.  a great doore & effectuall is opened by a longed-for hopefull Parliament. Oh how admirable it is, even to amazement!
 that the hearts and tongues of the people of God throughout the English nation, have beene so graciously enlarged Hos.  14.2.  in taking words with them, (not only Zach.  12.12, 13, 14.  in their humiliations apart in families, but also) on the dayes 2.  Chron.  20.3.4.  appointed by authority for solemne prayer & fasting; to Ezr.  8.21.  seeke a right way for themselves, and for their litle ones, and for all their substance; speaking and crying unto the Lord, Amos,  7.5.  Cease we beseech thee, by whom shall English Iacob arise? for he is small. Yea, and is it not exceedingly marvellous also? how after supplicating God in such sort, their Act.  17.16.  Spirits were stirred in them to speake to your Honors of the cure-all-court of Parliament in their manifold Petitions for Reformatiō, contributing votes by thousands of severall Counties. And what though 1.  Cor.  16.9.  there be many adversaries that doe murmur and repine at those Luk.  19.39, 40.  wel-approved zelots? May it not be thought that if they had held their peace, the stones would immediately have cryed out? 
 The blessed tidings of this reviving state of English affaires spreading abroad in sundry countreys, is come also into the Vnited Netherlands, to refresh (as Prov.  25.25.  good news is wont from a farre countrey) such of us of the English nation, who have been enforced by home-oppressions to seeke for liberty, imployment and livelihood (as the 2.  Chro.  11.13, 14.  Priests & Levites in Israel did on somwhat the like occasion) who yet in our measure Ier.  51.50.  Psal.  137.5, 6.  remember the Lord afarre of, not daring through forgetfulnes to let goe out of minde our most endeared native countrey. Psal.  122.6.9.  Let them prosper that love and seeke the welfare of England. 
 Hence your Honors most humble advertiser convinced of not 2.  King.  7.9.  doing well to remaine altogether silēt,
 readily tooke hold on the opportunity of the ensuing treatise (as Luk.  19.3, 4.  Zacheus climbed up into a Sycomore tree to see his Saviour, because of the presse, and litlenes of his stature) to insert a word, to be as Mark.  12.42.  the widows farthing, some addition to the great stock of more able qualified seekers of Reformation. 
 Most noble and right worthy Sirs; It were much to have beene wished, t'had never beene 2.  Sam.  1.20.  told in Gath, that the Psal.  12.1.  Mic.  7.1, 2.  godly men have ceased, and the faithfull failed in England: Woe is us, tis too notoriously knowne, how that divers worthies of the Lord of b. m. 2.  King.  2.12.  the chariots and horsmen of the English Israel, who by Psal.  46.4.  the christalline streames of pure doctrine made glad the citty of God, had their Reve.  11.7.  untimely deaths hastened by sharpe tempests of persecution raised against them by the Hierarchie through their Summoning, Traducing, Reproching, Suspending, Excommunicating; Depriving, Fining, Imprisoning, & trampling on them as unsavory salt, or as broken and despised vessels cast to the wals. Others have beene constrained to provide for their breathing as they could by removing into forraine parts, after much suffering at home, and thereby exposed to the bitter miseries Psal.  56.8.  Isa.  16.3, 4.  of wanderers, being debarred of the pleasant land of their nativity, ancient habitations, naturall kinred, familiar acquaintance, meanes of subsistance, accustomed aire, and wonted manners of people; and instead thereof Ezek.  3.5, 6.  cast into a land of strangers, and of a strange language, as a greater aggravation of their most disconsolate condition. Yea & Psal.  44.17.  all this come upon them, onely for their Act.  24.16.  endeavoring to keepe consciences void of offence towards God, & towards men; in refusall of conformity to some superstitious ceremonies, & subscription to the Canon (albeit
 they never refused to subscribe according to Stat. Q. Eliz.  13.12.  the law of the land) whereas otherwise they were orthodoxe and painfull in their ministery, and unblamable in their conversation, approving themselves to the 2.  Cor.  4.2.  consciences of their adversaries. Moreover they were such as highly prized the Church-assemblies of England, and diligently frequented and joyned in the solemne administration of the word, Sacraments, and prayers, so farre as they could free themselves from their owne personall pollutions and defilements, as Mat.  23.1, 2, 3.  our Lord Christ directeth in such case. 
 A true report of some Prelaticall proceedings in Chester Diocesse. May it please your Honors to receive a hint of some Prelaticall proceedings, exemplified mostly in the particular of your humble advertiser; who was called to the work of ministery many yeeres agone in such place of Chester Diocesse, where he could execute his function, without such officiating as is usually required of incumbents, that take the Cure in Parishes. In processe of time Now  B.  of Durham.  D. Morton became Prelate, who taking knowledge of divers Non-conformists in this Diocesse, H. Commission pretended ag. Papists in Lancashire chiefly bent ag. refusers of superstitious ceremonies.  sent out letters missive to summon some of them to the high Commission Court then kept at Chester. Which being divulged, it pleased God to stirre up some of the eminent & wel-affected Knights & Esquires inhabiting in that Diocesse, to consult & agree together to write a letter to the Bishop in these words;  A copie of a letter sent to the  B.  of Ch. from some worthy gentlemen of the dioces, in behalfe of some non-conformists.  Right Reverend, &c. Whereas wee understand that divers of our painfull and discreet Ministers, are lately by letters missive from your L. & others of his Majesties high Commission for causes Ecclesiasticall within the Diocesse of Chester, enjoyned to appeare before you, to answer to such matters as shalbe objected against them: We have thought fitting to acquaint
 your L. with our opinions of these our Ministers, whose names are subscribed, for the better prevēting (if need require) of such sinister and malitious informations, which in these cases are frequently stirred up against men of their sort & quality, somtimes by lewd & profane persons remaining in our owne Church, & many times by the disguised, subtill, & superstitious Romanists, & Church-papists, whose hearts are wholly against us, all the while their faces are seemingly with us. First therfore we have observed (soe farre as we are able to judge) in these our Ministers, Integrity of life & conversation, orthodoxall soundnes of doctrine in their teaching, diligence & painfulnes in their places; sobriety, & peaceablenes in their dispositions, free from factiousnes. In regard wherof, as also the great good and profit which our Congregations where they remaine have abundantly received from their ministery; we are emboldned eftsoones to intreat, &c.  The letter was delivered to the B. at The  B.  had besides his Bishoprick the Parsonage of Stocport, being the greatest benefice in all Cheshire.  Stocport, who having read it, let fall these words. They whom the letter concerneth are the worse to be liked, for the good testimony the Gentlemen give of them: And then speaking to me, (being one of the Subscribed in the letter) required a proposall of any argument against the use of the Crosse in Baptisme; that so he might instantly discover (as he boastingly spake) our weaknes and folly in refusing to conforme. But I desired to decline disputes with him, partly sith my errand at that time was to obteine his favour for release from the High C. Court, if it might be procured; and partly sith He vvas to be the chiefe judge in our cause, which might prove prejudiciall to us in case of a
 denyed dimission. Nevertheles when he pressed his demand in the presence of many persons of quality (lest I should seeme to betray a good cause in being unwilling or 1.  Pet.  3.15.  unready to give answer, when a reason of my profession vvas asked) I propounded an argumēt, stating it according to the fairest pretence of urging the signe of the Crosse in Baptisme, even as the Canon interpreteth the use of it:  For the dedicating of the party baptised to God.  Whence I proved that the signe of the Crosse in Baptisme was superstitious, sith such dedication signified by it, is an usurpatiō of an office besides divine institution, & consequently unlawfull, as Levit.  10.1, 2.  Galat.  1.8, 9.  by two texts of Scripture alledged & applied I did evince. After some debate about this argument, & of a non-sense distinction used by him, viz. A dedication of consecration, and a dedication of protestation, &c. He then said, he could not beleeve that the Canon was so explaned, & therfore sent for the booke of Canōs; but being therby further convinced, & not knowing what to answer, he passionatly wished, that either it had beene otherwise expressed, or that noe explanation had beene added to the Canon. In fine he ingenuously acknowledged his former neglect to study these controversies, having hitherto esteemed lightly of them; yet sith occasion seemed to require, he now resolved to apply his studies a while this way. Heerupon he was pleased to undertake our dismission from the H. C. C. till he should first have assayed to winne us to conformity in a scholasticall way, sith he discerned in us (as he said) some schollership above his expectation. At the same time he ordered us, severally to set downe in writing within the space of the moneth following (& then to bring to him) 3 The B. would not dispute at all about the greatest grievāce of the Non-conformists, viz. intollerable subscription unto  5  books in severall points questionable and faulty.  arguments, against the Crosse in Baptisme,
 the Surplisse in divine service, & kneeling at the Lords supper. His order was accordingly observed, albeit a desired successe failed. For some of us shortly after were againe summoned by letters missive, to the H. C. Court, & then dealt with in a vexatious sort. I was compelled to travell 30 miles from my dwelling, three severall times in 14 daies. On one of these Court daies M. Nichols of b. m. a most pious and learned Minister, being required to give an accompt of his arguments he had delivered to the B. was in open Court by the B. & D. Snell scornfully taunted & giered, as if what he had written was raw, and should therfore be rosted, when they were not able to gainsay the wisedome & Spirit, by which he spake. At the same time (I having beene immediately before sharply spoken unto by the B. and Commissioners, & deferred to the Court for the weeke following) one of the B s  cheife Prelates have gentlemen to wait on them, but they are such for the most part, as are notoriously debauched, as is commonly observed.  Gentlemen, accompanied with two Popish Gentlemen, belonging to a great Earle then in Chester, plucked me a litle aside, & did idly & disdainfully upbraid me of simplicity, & reproch me as if I were conjuring, because I looked to the ground, & answered nothing; they therfore also concluded I should goe to Hell, sith my looks seemed thitherward. Such their vile language uttered likewise with blasphemours swearing & cursing, in the hearing of many thronging about us, occasioned a Gentleman that was present to complaine of their uncivill behaviour, & in humane cariage: whereupō they being much inraged, thrust him on the suddaine to the doore of the palace, and cast him headlong dovvne the staires, to the endangering of his life. When the Court was risen the B. was privatly informed of his mans insolencies, who seemed to be somwhat discontented towards him; yet
 sayd, that vvhat his servant had disorderly done could be noe disparagment to him, that was his master. At my comming to Chester the weeke follovving, as I had beene ordered, the B. vvas not vvell in the morning of the Court-day, & in that respect kept his chamber, yet having notice of my attending, sent for me, & lying on his bed reasoned & expostulated with me touching the Ceremonies a full houre, letting fall by the way some complaints, that his remisse course with us, had beene prejudiciall to his preferment to Lincolne Bishoprick, vacant about that time. Soe that in great passion he threatned to suspend, excommunicate, degrade, and make the land too hot for me; asking me what I would doe. I ansvvered in the words of the Prophet, Mic.  7.7.  I will looke unto the Lord, I will wait for the God of my salvation: my God will heare me. He retorted, God would not heare a blasphemer, a blasphemer of his mother the Church of England, & that despised her ordinances. I ansvvered againe, that I desired to feare God, & abhorred blasphemy; & that a refusall of conformity to superstitious ceremonies, esteemed by the Prelaticall party to be things indifferent, was neither blasphemy nor contempt. In conclusion he vvas pleased to dismisse me at that time vvithout any censure, save of paying large fees to officers of the Court, tovvards paymēt vvherof he gave ten shillings. Not long after this the said Prelate printed a booke in defense of the 3 nocent Ceremonies, pretending to ansvver our argumēts given in against them, Abridgm. was given to the B. by M. Midsley sonne of father Midsley. They both had beene Vicars of Ratsdale in Lancashire, & deprived for inconformity to Ceremonies. The sone after degradation became a Physitian, & was prosecuted for not kneeling at Sacrament.  & also that unansvverable Abridgment of the reasons of the Ministers of Lincolne Diocesse, so farre as it argued against them. But the vveaknes of his Defense and pretended ansvver is fully & effectually discovered by the learned D. Ames in his
 printed Reply therto: And in his Fresh Suit against humane Ceremonies in Gods vvorship, or Triplication to D. Burgesse his Rejoynder for D. Morton. 
 The translation of the said Prelate to Lichfeild neere the same time, became occasion to D. Bridgman, the Parson of Wiggan in Lancashire, to succeed in the Bishoprick of Chester; vvho for a space moved not much against any, pursuing rather his vvorldly affaires, save only that he suspended a fevv Non-conformists, and At Knutesford a market towne in Cheshire a Gentleman of the countrey being vainly disposed, did cause a beare passing through the street to be led into the Chappell: which the Bishop hearing of suspended the Chappell from having any divine service or sermons for a long time, as being profaned by the beare.  Knutesford Chappel. But vvhen D. Neale the Prelate of Winchester, could not resist the title of Grace, but vvas removed to York, & should visit in Chester Diocesse, being in that Province; then the said Prelate of Chester, pretending feare of the Archb. of Y. in case that at his Visitation he should finde any Non-conformists, & soe taxe him of negligence or partiality, did therfore send for & inhibit privatly most of the Nonconformists in his Diocesse. About the same time, upō notice given, I went to him at his house in Lancashire, & desired his favorable conuivency as formerly; which he denied to grant, lest (as he said) he should hazard the favour of his Prince. Yet he required to heare at that time what I could say against kneeling at the Sacrament. I alledged our Saviour Christ his argument against it. For Math.  15.9.  Mark.  7.7.  he esteemeth it a vaine worshipping of him, when mens precepts are taught for doctrines; which by a just inference I applyed against kneeling at the Sacrament. Now all the ansvver the B. gave was that he expected from me a more learned argument. And then said, He thought I would have insisted in the gesture used by Christ at the institutiō, which he would shew me what manner of gesture that was, to convince therby how unseemly the use of it would be in the
 Church. And so he gravely laid himselfe along on a bench by a table in his parlour, leaning on his elbow: & then affirmed Christs posture all the Supper was such; which he said, I was not able to contradict, especially if I understood Greek, sith the originall word used in the Gospells, implied soe much. I replied, that what ever my understanding in the Greek tongue was, yet undoubtedly the Translaters of the new Testament were skilful therin, & had rendred it Math.  26.20.  Mark.  14.18.  Luk.  22.14.  Iohn.  13.12.   Sitting.  Yea & D. Morton, his predecessor, notwithstanding he kept a stirre about the translatiō, yet cōfessed, it was a kinde of sitting. 
 About two yeers after (whē 'twas thought the storme of the Archb. Visitation had been blowne over) meanes was used againe to the B. of Chester to obteine liberty of preaching; but failing, there were procured from Y. 3 writings, signed by the Register of the H. Com. in the behalfe of three of us in Cheshire, giving way to our going on in preaching as formerly. But within three moneths following, attachmēts were brought from the H. Com. (no letters missive having preceded) to apprehend & bring us to York, & there to imprison us till we should give security to satisfy the Court, in all their demāds. In this strait (having had some notice through the good providence of God, before the attachments could be served, & knowing too much already 2.  Thes.  3.2.  of the absurd unreasonablenes of that Court) we withdrew ourselves as the 1.  King.  17.5.  Prophet Eliah somtime escaped the fury of Ahab. Howbeit the inquiry of these H. Com̄issi. was not only such, as was after the Ibid. ca.  18.10.  Prophet in publik intimations in our Parishes in Cheshire, & taking the messengers oath he foūd us not, but also in sōe kinde more malicious: for they fined us in great sum̄es of money, & agravated our fines one Court-day after another, & then returned
 them into the Exchequer at London, where they were extended for the Kings use & then begged by M. Tirill a servant to his Maj. with whō we were enforced to compoūd for present money paid in hād to our great impoverishmēt, as being otherwise liable to greater troubles. I humbly beseech your Honors to pardon this boldnes thus farre animated by your garcious aimes & endeavours to vindicate the liberties of your distressed countrymē: Wherin I should still have remained patiently silent, both in my owne & brethrēs behalfe, had our sufferings beene all (although the Hierarchie could not countervaile the dam̄age to our King & nation) & had there not now beene an opportunity of some redresse. Esth.  7.4.  I crave leave therfore to suggest a few of the wofull fruits ❀ & sad consequents of Prelaticall proceedings. Sad consequents of Prelacy.  For evē hence it is come to passe that, I. Some well affected Parents have beene discouraged from training up their hopefull sonnes in such learning as should fit to the Ministery. II. Some conscientious yong men, having attained to a good degree of learning, have diverted, & applied their studies otherwaies. III. Some in the Ministery concerning the faith have made shipwrack, or schismed dangerously, entertaining unsoūd, & unwarrantable opinions & courses, turning to be Anabaptists, Separatists, Semi-separatists, &c. and others become licentious, or meerly formall and careles in the execution of their calling. IV. Some of the 2.  Pet.  2.2.  people have follovved their pernicious & deceivable waies of Anabaptisme, Separation, Independēcy, Popularity, & Profanesse, by reason of whom the way of trueth is evill spoken of. Hos.  4.9.  Like Priest, like People. V. But behold greater scandals thē these; for hence Ezek.  8.3.  the image of jealousy, which provoketh to jealousy, even 2.  Thes.  2.7.  the Mystery of iniquity hath
 beene more bold to lift up the head, & Ezek.  8.12, 16.  chambers of imagery have beene raised at the upper end of Chācels, & Altars placed theron, and worship directed towards the East. VI. Hence In the yeere  16 17.  D. Mortō B. of Chester framed the directions for the first liberty grāted to sports on the Lords day; at the same time he soe eagerly prosecuted the Non-conformists about Ceremonies.  a wide gap hath beene opened to Libertinisme, in the audacious profanation of the Lords day; grosse contempt of the faithfull ministery; scorning at the performances of family duties; bolstring of ignorance, the stepdame of devotiō; countenancing of Wakes, Rush-bearings, Mixt-dancings, May-poles, Beare-beatings, Stage-playes, Revellings, Healthings, & all manner of the like disordered courses, with a censuring all strictnes in religion, & circumspect walking to be foolish precisenes & Puritanisme. VII. Hence have followed those irregular confusions in the popular and independent governmēt of the Brownistically affected, breaking in pieces againe and againe to their great reproch; & yet discovering therby, that their Act.  5.38.   nevv way  is not of God, sith it doeth daily come to nought, by their owne disuniting and unchurching of themselves. viii. Iudg.  5.15.  Hence have risen those great thoughts of heart amongst brethrē, occasioning bitter contentions, fruitles janglings, censorious words, tart & galling writings, alienation of affections, strangenes of countenance, breach of Christian fellowship, interruption of prayers, & neglect of necessary mutual offices. ix. Yea & hence doubtles hath issued (as from the proper originall) that unworthy Remonstrance against Presbytery, represented to the house of Peers from divers Noblemen and Gentlemē of Cheshire, as appeareth by a printed booke under the name of Sir Thomas Aston Baronet, 1641. The greivous scādal & offence wherof may in some part be evinced by these short animadversions following. 
 Animadversions on the Cheshire Remonstrance. I. The title of it; A Remonstrance against Presbytery. 
 
 ANIMADVERS. Of the title the same may be said, which was observed Declaration against Vorstius.  by the great & wise king Iames of famous memory, touching the title of Bertius his booke  de apostasia sanctorum,  viz. The title only were enough to make it worthy the fire. Because I. The holy Scripture approveth of Presbytery, as a divine ordināce both for the 1.  Tim.  4.14.  impositiō of hands, & also for 1.  Tim.  5.17.  the exercise of rule & government. II. Presbytery is established in the neighbour Reformed Churches, which are precious in the eyes of the Lord, & of all well-affected to the reformed religiō in England. III. Prelaticall men are not wont in their writings to contradict it simply. How commeth it then to passe that some in Cheshire Numb.  12.8.  are not afraid to speake against Presbytery? 
 II. The pretended occasion of the Remonstrance against Presbytery, alledged by the contriver & subscribers, is, A Petition; & Positions preached at Chester, & Knutesford, annexed to the Remonstrance. 
 ANIMADV. The occasion of the suggested pretence, is but a meere pretence, having noe just ground at all. For I. Neither the Petition, nor Positions anexed to the Remonstrance doe seeke for Presbyterian discipline mentioned in the positions in greater characters seeme to be the words of Remōst. not of the Preacher, disaffected to Presbyterian government.  Presbytery, but seeme rather to affect a popular government. II. The Patrons of popular government (contended for in the positions) are for the most part either Separatists, or Semi-separatists, who are as opposite to Presbyteriall governmēt, as they are to Prelacy; as is well knowne to them that know them. And therfore it behooveth Cheshire men to Iohn.  7.24.  give righteous judgement, when they take upon them to censure, & in-no-wise confound & jumble together opiniōs & defenders of them soe directly opposite. For 2.  Cor.  5.10.  we must all appeare at the tribunall of the Gen.  18.25.  righteous judge of all the world, who will doe right. 
 
 III. REMONSTR. taketh for granted that Provinciall & Diocesan  B B.  are to be understood by the Remonstr. otherwise nothing is concluded.  Provinciall & Diocesan Bishops are of Apostolicall institution; Philip.  1.1. 1.  Tim.  3.1.  alledging in the margent two texts of Scripture for his proofe. 
 ANIMADV. Neither of the texts alledged doe inferre an Apostolicall institution of Provinciall & Diocesan Bishops. For, I. The originall words translated .  Bishops or Overseers, & .  Presbyters or Elders, are equivalent names of the same office, & are soe used in the Act.  20.17, 28. 1.  Pet.  5.1, 2.  Scripture. II. The pleaders for Hierarchie doe grant that Bishops and Presbyters in Scripture phrase are the same. III. The text in the Epist. to Phil. 1.1. mentioneth  Bishops  in the plurall number, that is, such officers as did oversee the Church at Philippi, & not a Bishop alone, superiour to other officers in degree, or government, according to the opiniō of Hierarchicall men 3.  Iohn.  9.  affecting preeminence. IV. The text in 1. Tim. 3.1. mentioneth also office, as well as Bishop, which office is described in the 1.  Tim.  3.2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.  subsequent verses to be the office of the Presbyter. And this may appeare further by comparing therwith the Tit.  1.5, 6, 7.  Epist. to Titus. V. It is good to be wise according to sobriety in understanding some things in 2.  Pet.  3.16.  Pauls Epistles & other Scriptures, lest for wāt of learning & stability they be wrested to destruction. This is an usefull item for Cheshire men & others also. 
 IV. REMONSTR. commendeth Bishops, that they were the great lights of the Churches; and Martyrs in primitive times. 
 ANIMADV. There is noe consequence to justify Prelacy hence. For 1. Papists pretend the same thing, albeit unjustly, in the behalfe of their Romish Bishops & Hierarchie. II. The name of Bishops or Presbyters is oftentimes indifferently by the Fathers attributed to
 those great lights, and Martyrs: as is evident in their books, & sufficiently cleered by Orthodox Writers against the Papists. III. Such Bishops as hadia superiority in those times, Ierom. Gomment. on Epist. to Titus.  received it from the Church in humane policy, not by divine institution. 
 V. REMONST. asscribeth to Prelates the redemption of the purity of the Gospell now professed in England from Romish corruption. 
 ANIMADVERS. This assertion seemeth to want the trueth of story. For 1. In the booke of Martyrs alledged by the Remonstr. the reformation of religion is referred to King Edward himselfe, & his Counsell, & Parliamēt. II. King Edward approved himselfe better then the best of the Prelates, in withstanding toleration of Masse to his sister, at the request of the Emperour. III. Archb. Cranmer acknowledged to M. Cheke that King Edward had more Divinity in his litle finger, then all they had in all their bodies. Let the Remonst. therfore henceforth take heed of detracting from Kings unjustly, to extoll the Bishops unjustly. 
 VI. REMONST. observeth that divers of the Prelates have beene great assertors of our religion against the common enemies of Rome. 
 ANIMADV. I. Divers of the Prelates have beene too great friends to Rome, as it is famously knowne, both heretofore, & of late also. II. The Prelates generally have more vehemently prosecuted the faithfull Ministers refusing conformity to some popish ceremonies, (albeit of the same religion professed and established in England) thē the superstitious & idolatrous Papists, the grand enemies of the reformed religion. II. The Prelates generally doe make use of divers arguments used by Romanists against Protestants for their Hierarchicall
 discipline & Ceremonies. IV. The greatest assertors of the reformed religion amongst the Prelates make use against the Papists of the Non-conformists arguments against prelacy & superstition. V. Non-conformists & Ministers of the Reformed Churches, where Presbytery is established, have approved themselves oppugners of Antichrist to purpose. 
 VII. REMONST. urgeth a continuance of Prelacy, sith it is established by the laws of the land. 
 ANIMADV. I. It somtimes falleth out that 1.  King.  12.28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33.  unjust laws are enacted, & 1.  King.  16.26.  Mic.  6.16.  continued in a land professing religiō, touching both the Ministery & Ceremonies. II. Parliaments doe aswell serve to repeale, as to enact laws, as just cause & occasion shall require. And accordingly English Parliaments have beene wont to proceed. 
 VIII. REMONST. affirmeth that in the doctrine of the Prelates generally taught nothing is found dissonant from Gods word. 
 ANIMADV. I. The Prelates generally have taught very seldome, soe that it cannot much be taken notice what māner of doctrine they teach. Queene Eliz. is reported to say, that when she made a Bishop, she marred a Preacher. ii. 2.  Cor.  11.13.  Deceitfull workers doe somtimes transforme themselves into the Apostles of Christ. III. It is well knowne that many of thē, & their favorites have beene deeply stained with Popish, & Arminian points. IV. The Prelates generally have countenanced Arminians rather then any way opposed them. 
 IX. REMONSTR. suggesteth a danger of tenents preached publickly, & of printed pamphlets, &c. 
 ANIMADV. I. Such See above  2.  Animadv.  suggestion against tenents intimated, doth not at all reflect on the seekers of Presbyterial government. II. Albeit 'twere to have beene desired, that
 noe such unwarrantable courses had beene held by preposterous and popular zealots, yet it is noe new thing that Math.  13.39.  Satā by his instruments should sow tares in Gods wheat field. III. Anabaptists in Luthers time were a great scandall to the begun glorious reformation, yet not any just ground of prejudice against it. 
 X. REMONSTR. conceiteth that the 26 Prelates are easily responsall to Parliaments, for any of their deviations from the rule of law. 
 ANIMADV. 1. Deviation that is 2.  King.  23.15.  wholly devious is not at all responsall either to. God or rationall men. Such a deviation is Prelacy, considered as Prelacy, in the sense of the D. Bilson, D. Downham, D. Hall.  rigid patrons of it. II. Prelates have not beene easily responsall to Parliaments at any time for their deviations in prelacy, till this present Parliament. III. There are more then 26 Ordinaries that dispense the Civill & Canon law, viz. Suffraganes, Chancellors, Cōmissaries, Arch-deacons, Officials, Surrogates, Rurall deanes, Subdeanes, &c. IV. It is better to Math.  15.13.  roote up the plants, which God hath not planted. 
 XI. REMONST. feareth future inconvenience may be found in the government of a numerous Presbytery in England, which may consist of neere 40000 Church-governors. 
 ANIMADV. I. No inconveniēce need be feared in establishing of Christs ordinance. II. The errors of Presbyteries in their government are responsall to Classes & Synods. III. It was the honor of the land 1.  Chro.  23.3, 4, 5.  of Israel in King Davids reigne, that there were numbred from the age of 30 yeers & upward 38000 Church-officers. And would it not be the honor of England in the reigne of King Charles to have 40000 Elders to oversee the Lords houses in the daies of the Gospell? IV. It is much to be
 feared (such have beene the unhappy fruits of Prelacy) that they that should be chosen to oversee in Parishes, wilbe 2.  Chro.  29.34.  found too few, soe that there wilbe great need of uniting or combining severall lesser Parishes adjoyning into one Presbytery. 
 XII. REMONSTR. apprehendeth that presbyterian government may prove to be inconsistent with Monarchie, and dangerously conducible to Anarchie. 
 ANIMADV. I. Monarchie in the civill state and Presbytery being both Gods ordinances are not inconsistent one with another. There may be a Matth.  22.21.  rendring to Caesar, the things that are Caesars, and to God, the things that are Gods, in one and the same Commonwealth. II. King Basil. dor. Epist. to reader.  Iames of b. m. knew and found a consistency of Monarchie and Presbytery together in Scotland. III. King Charles findeth the same in Scotland at this day. IV. The Vnited Netherlands doe finde by experience that Presbytery is noe way conducible to Anarchie. But had the reines of Presbytery beene loosed, as the Arminians affected, what might have ensued may easily be guessed by some begun commotions of that party. 
 XIII. REMONSTR. feareth that the consequents of Presbytery would be the utter losse of learning & lawes. 
 ANIMADV. I. There Psal.  53.5.  are some that oft feare, where noe feare is. II. Learning and lawes doe flourish gloriously in the reformed Churches, where Presbytery is established. III. Prejudice and losse of learning and lawes have in great part beene occasioned by Prelacy. For 1. Is it not through the default of Prelates, that there are soe many Isa.  56.10.11.  unlearned & unable to preach in the ministery? 2. Is it not by the negligence of Prelates, that there are soe many negligent Ministers,
 suffering their gifts to decay by seldome preaching? 3. Is it not from their qualifications and dispensations, there are soe many Nonresidents, & Pluralists, as that other Schollers of better desert do want encouragmēt? 4. Doeth not the Parliament well enough know & understand who are the Seekers of the subversion of the lawes, and of introducing an arbitrary government? 
 XIV. REMONS. is subscribed by a numerous sort of the Nobles, Baronets, Knights, Esquires, Divines, Gentlemen, Freeholders, & others inhabitants of Cheshire. 
 ANIMADV. This is indeed the sad consequent of Prelacy in Cheshire. Ah & alas, that Cheshire the cheife shire.  Cheshire not long agone reputed & deservedly esteemed for the Prov.  12.26.  profession & power of religion more excellent then their neighbors, should Ier.  2.21.  now turne to a degenerate plant of a strange vine to the Lord! Especially the Ministery that had their spiritually glorious Exercises at Northwich, Namptwich, Knutesford, Macclesseild, Bowden, Frodsham, Budworth, Torperley, Tarvin, Ince, Motterum, &c.  monethly Exercises, & solemne assemblies (besides their blessed Sabbaths) frequented by sundry of the renowned Gentry; & very many wel-disposed people, wherby 1.  Tim.  3.13.  they purchased to themselves a good degree in Christianity & great boldnes in the faith, which is in Christ Iesus. But yet it may be thought in a charitable construction, some excuse of the greatnes of their error, that either the most of thē subscribed the Remonstrance 2.  Sam.  15.11.  in their simplicity, not knowing wherto it tended, or els in an inconsiderate hast, being The letters sent to the severall Hundreds required a hasty dispatch.  urged to doe quickly, what they did, sith dispatch was the life of the busines, & noe copies permitted to be taken. However, its not to be doubted, but that Reve.  2.1.  He that walketh amidst the golden candlesticks, Reve.  3.4.  doeth graciously take knowledge of many names in Cheshire ( 1.  King.  19.18.  it may be 7000) that as Hos.  11.12.  Iuda doe yet rule with God, and are faithfull with the Saints. 
 
 Right honorable, there is no feare of your abundant wisdomes in discerning of these greivous Prelaticall maladies, nor of your compassionate faithfulnes in applying seasōable remedies; sith all mē must needs acknowledge, that its 1.  King.  10.6.7.  a true report, they have heard of your acts & wisdome, exceeding the fame thereof. Luk.  1.68.  Blessed be the Lord God of England that hath visited and redeemed his people. Psal.  118.2.  Let the Churches of the Saints in England, Scotland, & Ireland, now say, his mercy endureth for ever. Let the Non-conformists ( Psal.  83.3.  Gods hidden ones in those lands) now say, his mercy endureth for ever. Yee Iudg.  6.12.14.  mighty men of valour, the Lord hath beene with you hitherto, 1.  Sam.  17.36.  subduing the Lyon & the Beare (even the High Commission court, & Starre chamber) that did prey upon the flock. Goe on in this your might to save from (that uncircumcised Philistin) the oppressing Hierarchie. And let it be 1.  Sam.  25.31.  noe offence of heart to your Honors to 2.  Pet.  1.12.  be stirred up to goe forward, making the word of God the Psal.  119.24.  man of your counsell. And for your better helpe and Act.  8.31.  guidance, may it please your Honors to make use of the labors of godly-learned Interpreters, that have beene the excellent lights of the Reformed Churches, both Calvin, Beza, G. Bucer, Didoclavius, &c.  abroad & also in Cartwright, Traverse, Vdal, Parker, Bayne, &c.  England; observing withall the Apostolicall advertisment touching 1.  Cor.  11.16.  the Custome of the Churches of Christ, and their Colos.  2.5.  comly order, even of the purest Scots, French, Dutch, &c.  reformed Churches from all Antichristianisme, both in doctrine & discipline. These Reformed Churches have in their citties, townes, and villages 1.  Tim.  4.14.  Presbyteries; 1.  Tim.  5.17.  consisting of teaching & ruling Elders, chosen by the plurality of their voices, consented unto by the Congregation, & approved by the Magistrates and Classis. These Act.  20.17.28.  Elders doe take heed to the flock, over which
 the Holy Ghost hath made them Overseers; They ordaine Officers, admit to the Sacraments, admonish and censure offenders, according to Math.  18.17.  Christs rule of discipline: and they signify to the Congregation what belongeth to thē to take knowledge of, either to consent unto the same, or except against it, as just cause shall require. And in case some difficulty doe appeare in the affaires of the Church, that cannot be decided well by the Presbytery, thē they have a liberty (& are wont) to appeale Act.  15.2.  & seeke helpe & assistance from the Classis, consisting of neighbour Presbyteries, (called by some also Presbyteries) with which they are combined in an equall power & authority, noe One exercising any prelaticall preeminence. And if the matter controverted cannot satisfactorily be determined by the Classis, thē there is a referēce to the Provinciall Synod, consisting of the Deputies chosē by the severall Classes, of equall power & authority. And if yet agreement be not made, then the matter is to be brought to a Nationall Synod, cōsisting of Deputies sent frō the Provinciall Synods. In their severall Presbyteries, Classes, & Synods, Provinciall & Nationall, they have Presidents and Scribes chosen from amongst themselves for the more orderly menaging of their Sessions. And in Synods some cheife Magistrats are present to see order observed. This way of Christ, walked in by the Reformed Churches, is the way of peace, liberty, & edificatiō, though carped at by some Iude vers.  8.16.  that speake evill of what they neither know nor understand. And for the more cleere & pregnant demonstratiō hereof, the following treatise touching the power of Elderships, Classes, & Synods may be of singular use; written by an Math.  13.52.  able, judicious, & pious Divine, instructed to the Kingdome of heaven, having
 beene well studied, and diligently exercised in the doctrine & practise of discipline above 30 yeeres together; whilst he was Pastor of the English reformed Church in Amsterdam; where was speciall occasion Matth.  25.20.  to put forth his talent, by reason of the cheifest of the Separatists that sojourned there at the same time. And albeit the Author lived not to finish, & review his paines, yet through divine providence, a Timothy 1.  Cor.  4.17.  who knew his waies (trained up in the Scriptures, & other good learning in Schooles, and Vniversity, and for present 2.  Tim.  2.15.  a workman that needeth not to be ashamed) hath brought the 2.  Tim.  4.13.  parchments he left behinde him to publick use, for the common benefit of the English nation in a time of need, calling for helpe 2.  Sam.  15.34.  & counsel to defeate the dangerous projects of all Achitophels. 
 Right honorable, ye are as 2.  Sam.  14.17.  Angels of God to discerne good & bad, & to speake comfortable words to your afflicted & banished Countreymen; Yee are the great Counsellers, Iudges, and State-physitians of England. Now Isa.  9.6.  the Wonderfull, Counseller, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of peace furnish your Honors more & more with the Isa.  11.2.  Spirit of wisdome & understanding, the Spirit of Counsell and might, the Spirit of knowledge & of the feare of the Lord, Psal.  20.4.  & fulfill all your counsells which are for the 1.  Cor.  10.31.  glory of God, for the 1.  Pet.  2.17.  honor of our gracious King Charles, and for the true Iob,  22.30.  welfare of England, Scotland, & Ireland; even soe prayeth 
 Your Honors most humble advertiser, and devoted observer,  THOMAS PAGET. 

