
 
 
 To the Right VVorshipfull Sir NICHOLAS RAYNTON, Knight, and Alderman of  London:  and to Mr. WILLIAM GIBBS, Alderman, and Sher ffe of the said City, and to all his loving friends who have been Church wardens assisting him. As to the Right VVorshipfull Mr.  Walter Rogers▪  Mr.  Robert Smith,  Mr.  Samuel Bridge,  Mr.  Thomas Soane,  Mr.  Henrie Geirie,  Mr.  Thomas  aton,  Mr.  Iohn Bludworth,  Mr.  Nicholas Cook,  Mr.  Anthony Crosse,  Mr.  Ambrose Brumskill,  M .  Tobias Dixon,  Mr.  Iohn Niclas,  Mr.  Iaspar Clayton,  Mr.  Andrew H de,  Mr.  George Denham,  Mr.  Iohn Rogers,  Mr.  Spencer Vincent,  Mr.  ohn Smith,  Mr.  Richard Kimble,  Mr.  Francis Pat s,  Mr.  Peter Worster,  Mr.  William Dev nsh re,  and to all his other loving parishioners, and to his loving friends, and fellow labourers, Mr.  Iohn Hopkins,  and Mr.  Iohn Davis.  Old  Ephraim Pagitt,  Recto  of  Edmonds  the  King  in  Lomb.  wisheth all happinesse. 
 M Unster  writeth that there are no Wolves in  England,  which is a great blessing, and in a manner peculiar to our Kingdome, in which our Shepheards may securely feed their flocks without dread of those ravenous beasts, who are to sheepe most mischievous: The like might I have said of  Mysticall wolves,  for 40. year and more of my Pastoral charge in which I had no dread of them: But now I live to see (with griefe of heart) grievous Wolves broken in among us,  not sparing the flocke.  Therefore the counsell that
 
St.  Paul  gave to the Presbyters of  Ephesus,  I will put you in remembrance of (that is▪  To take heed to our selves and to the flock whereof the holy Ghost hath made us over-seers.  It is reported concerning the mother of  Gregory Nazianzen,  that she dreamed when she was conceived of that worthy light of the Church, that shee had in her womb a white mastiffe, which by his barking should drive the Wolves from the sheep-fold: And whereas some of you with many other pious Citizens, have erected sundry Lectures in this City▪ in which divers  Nazianzens  now preach, who I hope with the assistance of our religious patriots assembled in Parliament, will drive away, not only the Romish, but all other ravening wolves from the Sheep▪ fold of our Lord Jesus Christ. For my owne part, although by reason of my age, I cannot barke loud▪ much lesse bite. Yet whereas about 60. yeares agoe, I published in print 28. Sermons of  Lavaterus  upon  Ruth▪  Now not knowing how soon I shall put off this my Tabernacle, I publish this sermon of my own, preached among you, when the plague of heresie first began among us, and this I dedicate to you, to whom I conf sse my selfe much obliged: Most humbly entreating Almighty God to blesse you with abundance of all gifts and graces in this world, and eternall glory in the world to come. 
 Your old Pastor,
 Ephraim Pagitt. 

