
 
 
 TO THE HIGH AND MIGHTIE PRINCE CHARLES, PRINCE OF GREAT BRITAINE, DVKE OF CORNWALL AND ALBANY, &c. 
 SIR, 
 M Y duty (that moves alwaies to your presence, as the flame to heaven) is now more imboldned, because in the present eruption of  Licentious Pamphlets,  I conceive it seasonable to publish a  modest worke,  and necessary to intitle it to inviolable protection. Humbly therefore I consecrate to your Highnesse  Pliny's  Panegyricke, which hath lived many Ages with constant approbation in his Dialect, and even in my rude expressions (being cherished with your gracious smile) may have the honour to out-live all those abortives
 
of the Presse, that (like their compeeres the vipers) are curst into fruitfulnesse. 
 Such as his Booke, such was the Author, universally approved of; for what merit, appeares by his advancement in those times when merit onely was preferr'd, his prudence, erudition, and integrity of life advancing him to the Consulship of  Rome,  and yet higher, to the impartiall estimation of his Prince, for whose favours gratefull  Pliny  to this day payes tribute: For now when  Trajan's  Annals lye in fragments, when those imperiall Statues and Triumphall Arches, that should have immortalized him, have confessed their owne mortality; behold (in this Panegyricke) that best of  Caesars  from his Ashes reascends his Throne, where he still governes the world, as an example. 
 But, Sir, you have (and long may you have) a living example, the absolute paterne of all virtues, His Sacred Majestie, whose Heroicall and Divine Principles we know are written in your heart, because we read them in your actions. From hence flowes your particular regard to the deserving, from hence your generall affability, and (which in your Spring of yeares we behold with greatest admiration) your love to Iustice equalls your love to Men; and both these Affections are steered by Iudgement, great as your Birth and Spirit. 
 What fitter wish can I make to so much goodnesse, then that of the Romane Senate to their Emperours? May you be Eutropius.  Ʋsque ad nostrā aetatem non aliter in Senatu Principibus acclametur, nisi foelicior  Augusto,  melior  Trajano.   happier then Augustus, better then Trajan:  to whom you are now so just a Parallel, that I present his Character as a marke of your owne height in honour; whereon if your Highnesse please sometimes to cast your eye, you may discerne how you out-grow him in those perfections, vvhich render you the Modell of your Excellent Parents, and the joy of all their Loyall Subjects; among the faithfullest whereof, as my study, so my hope is ever to be number'd: 
 SIR, 
 Your Highnesse's most obedient and most faithfull servant  ROBERT STAPYLTON. 

