
 
 
 ❧To his honour'd Friend Colonell
JOHN BELLAMY. 
 Sir, 
 F Awning Flattery spoyls many; but
 plain dealing  is every mans duty:
The  wounds  of a Friend will  heale, 
when the  kisses  of an Enemy will
 hurt.  The  City Remonstrance  is
 no caracter  of the Cityes  excellency:  Nor your  Vindication 
thereof, of your  Perfection.  And the truth
is, the  former Expresses  of this worthy City, and the
 common observation  of your old  Profession,  quitted
our expectations of such a  Remonstrance  from
them: And such a  Vindication  from you. For as wee
doe not expect  Grapes  from  thornes,  so neither  sowre
Sloes,  from generous  Vines,  as not  Figs  from  thistles, 
so neither  prickles  from  Figge-trees;  But it is the  City
above  which is  only pure,  and the  man at Gods
right hand,  who is  only Perfect:  And therefore:
As the  Moon  is not defineable by her  Spots,  Jewels
 
by their  flawes,  nor  Gould  by its  drosse;  so, is not the
 City  by their  Remonstrance,  nor your selfe by your
 Vindication  thereof, (though I must needs say, the
 pleading  for evill, is worse then the evill it pleads for,
and therefore your  Vindication,  then the  Remonstrance 
it selfe but yet the greatnesse of the temptation,
( viz.  your presumption of the  Cityes favour,  and
 Popular applause ) calles for more Graines of allowance
concerning your selfe, in the thoughts of your
Friends. I confesse you are once more assaulted with a
 fresh temptation, viz.  to  hate  your friend, (even to
revenge) for his  plain dealings,  and how it prevailes,
your  future deportment towards him and his
Friends,  I mean the Servants of God, differing in
Iudgement from your selfe will helpe mens intelligence
were wee  to know men after the flesh,  your former
acquaintance, and your kindnesse to me, had held my
hand from this present worke,  but Selfe denyall  is
both your duty and mine; Your strange  siding,  and keen
 penning  it against your Bretheren, makes them  affraid
of you,  lest you should be one of those  many,  who
 in the latter dayes shall be offended at the name,
of Christ, betray one another, and bate one another; 
beleeve it, how ever you may flatter your selfe,
you are already come to a neerer degree of open persecution
of the  Saints of God,  then  Haza  was unto those
 
blouddy executions against  Israel  of old, when he said to
the Prophet, (lamenting at the fore-sight thereof)  Is
thy Servant a Dog, that he should do this great
thing,  2. Kings 8. 13. the present distance wherein
you stand, from such proceedings, is not so great as the
 former  was from your present practises, during the time
of your old profession; those that begin, not only to  forsake 
the fellowships of their old Companions in the
wayes of God, but also to make them obnoxious to the
Stroake of the Magistrate, as you have done, are posting
apace to that irrecoverable sin, of doing  despite to the
Spirit of Grace,  Heb. 10. 29. I know Sir, these are
cutting words, but their propper tendency, is your personall
good, and the timely prevention, through Gods
mercy, of your future evill, for how ever you take me,
my heart-knowing God, and my thoughts-knowing
conscience can witnesse for me, that I am, 
 Your reall and faithfull Friend
J. P. 

