
 
 To the Reader. 
 Christian Reader, 
 I  Who have beene alwayes hitherto a  Cordiall Desirer,
endeavourer of Peace,  am here necessitated to present
 Thee  with a  Discourse  of  Warre;  to justifie  The Lawfulnesse
of the Parliaments  present taking up of  necessary
Defensive Armes.  Which neither their  Endeavours, 
nor my,  with many others Prayers  could
(with any safety to our  Priviledges, Persons, Religion,
Liberty, Realmes,  now forcibly invaded by his
 Majesties Popish and Malignant Cavallieres ) hitherto prevent, or conjure
downe. 
 To plead the Justnesse of a  Warre,  of an unnaturall  Civill warre,  (the
worst of any) of a  Warre  betweene the  Head  and  Members,  may seeme
not onely a  Paradox,  but a  Prodigie,  in a Land heretofore blessed with
an aged, uninterrupted Peace: And Civilis Belli, l. 1. p. 1.   Lucans 
 Bella per AEmathios plusquam civilia Campos, &c. 
(now most unhappily revived among us) being but  Historicall,  and  Poeticall; 
may passe the world with lesse  admiration  and  censure,  than this  harsh
Peece,  which is both  Legally  &  Theologically  (like the Subject matter)  Polemicall.
But as the Apud veros Dei cultores etiam ipsa bella pacata sunt; quae non cupiditate aut crudelitate, sed pacis studio geruntur Aug. de diuers. Eccl. observ. 7. Gratian Caus. 23. qu. 2. cap. Apud. Albericus Gentilis de Iure belli. l. 1. c. 5.   ayme, the end of all just War, is and ought to be onely future
setled Peace;  so is the whole drift of this  Military Dissertation:  not to  foment 
or  protract,  but  end  our  bloody Warres;  which nothing hath more excited,
animated, lengthened in the Adverse party, than a strong conceite,
(if not serious beliefe,) that  The Parliaments Forces, neither would,
nor lawfully might in point of Law or Conscience forcibly resist or repulse their
invasive Armes, without danger of High Treason and Rebellion,  (which  Bugbeare 
I have here refuted, removed) and the In-activity, the much admired
slownesse of many of our Forces, in resisting, in preventing their
vigorous Proceedings, which a little timely vigilance and diligence had
easily controlled. 
 It is a more than Patriae deesse quoad vita supperat nefas est Livius, Rō. Hist. l 5.   Barbarous Inhumanity  for any person, not to put to
his uttermost strength, speedily to close up the  mortall wounds  of his  bleeding,
 
dying Native Country;  but to  protract its cure,  to enlarge, encrease
its  deadly Ulcers, Stabs, Sores,  and make a  lasting trade of Warre,  out of a  sordid, 
 Militare non est delictum sed propter praedam militare peccatum est. August. de Verbis Dom. Tract. 19. & Gratian. caus. 23. qu 1.   sinfull desire of Gaine,  of  Plunder,  to raise a private  fortune  by the
 Republicks ruines,  (a sinne, of which some perchance are guilty) is an
unparalleld, most unnaturall  prodigious Impiety. 
 It was thought a  great dishonour  heretofore, for men of  Honour  and  Estates,
not to serve and defend their Country gratis,  as our own See  Littleton  in his Chapter of Gran-serjanty, Knight-service, Escuage, &  Cook ibi.   Lawbooks  &
 Histories  plentifully manifest: and shall such  Persons  now turne sordid
 Mercenaries;  stirre neither hand nor foot without their  Pay;  and be more
diligent to get their  wages,  than discharge their  Service?  God forbid. 
 It is Numb. 32 Josh. 1. 12, to 18.   Recorded  of the Children of  Gad  and  Reuben,  after they had
recovered their inheritance on this side Jordan, that they went all up armed before
the Lord over Jordan, at their owne free cost, untill they had driven out all
the enemies in it before them, subdued the Land, and setled their brethren of the
other Tribes peaceably in it.  And shall not  Englishmen  of Estates doe the
like for their Brethren now, in these times of need, when money (the
sinewes of Warre) is almost quite shrunke up, by reason of former  Disbursements
 and want of  Trade?  We read, Judg 5. 19.  That the very Heathen Kings
of Canaan when they came and fought in Taanach by the waters of Megiddo,
against the Israelites, THEY TOOKE NO GAINE OF MONEY,
 for their paines: Such was their Noble-generosity, which  Deborah
 registers in her Song for their eternall Glory. And we heare of divers 
Lords  and  Gentlemen  in the  Kings Army,  which serve against their 
Country gratis;  yea furnish out sundry Horse and Foote, of their proper
cost; of few or none such there who receive any  Pay.  And shall these be
more free, generous, active in serving, fighting against  God, Religion, Lawes,
Liberties, Parliament  and their  Country;  than those of like Ranke and quality
on the  Parliaments  party are in warring for them?  O 2 Sam. 1. 20.  let not  such
anignoble, unchristian Report be ever once  justly told in Gath, or published
in the streets of Askelon, lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoyce, lest the
sonnes and daughters of the uncircumcised triumph. 
 I know there are some  Heroicke Worthies  in the  Parliaments Armies,  of
whom I may truely sing with  Deborah, Judg. 5. 9. 18.  My heart is toward the Governours
of Israel, that offered themselves willingly among the people;  and who like  Zebulon
and Nepthali, have freely jeoparded their lives unto the death, in the high
places of the field. Blessed  be their  Endeavours,  and their  Names  for ever 
Honourable:  I shall now onely wish that others would imitate their  laudable
examples,  that so our  long-lingring warres,  may be speedily and
happily determined in a  blessed, pure, pious, secure, honourable, lasting Peace.
 
 They are  Tormentors,  not  Chirurgions, Executioners,  not true  Souldiers,  who
desire, endeavour not speedily to close up and heale their dearest  Countries
 bleeding, festring  wounds;  for which I have prepared this  Treatise,  as a 
Soveraigne Balme,  to incarne and cicatrize them, not ulcerate, or inflame
them. 
 It was the  Prophets  Patheticke expostulation, Jer. 8. 20. 22.   The harvest is past,
the Summer is ended, and we are not healed: Is there no balme in Gilead? Is
there no Physitian there? why then is not the health of the Daughter of my people
recovered?  It may be  Englands  and  Irelands  expostulation now: The
Lord put it into the hearts of our great  Physitians  (the  King, Parliament, 
and  Grandees  of both Armies) that they may now at last with bleeding,
melting hearts and spirits, speedily poure forth such effectuall healing
 Balmes  into these two  dying Kingdomes deadly wounds,  as may effectually
 cure  and  restore them  to more perfect health and vigor than they ever formerly
enjoyed, that so they may lose nothing but their  putrid blood,  their
 proud dead flesh,  their  filthy sanies  and  corrupt humours,  by their  unnaturall
stabs  already received: Towards the advancement of which much
desired  cure,  if these my undigested rude  Collections  (interrupted with sundry
inevitable interloping  Distractions,  which may justly excuse their many
defects) may adde any contribution, or satisfie any  seduced,  or  scrupulous
Consciences  touching this present  Warre;  I shall deeme my labours highly
recompensed; And so recommending them to  Gods blessing,  and thy  charitable
acceptation,  I shall detaine thee with no further  Prologue. 
 Farewell 

