
 
 
 TO
THE HIGH COVRT
OF
PARLIAMENT. 
 Right Honourable, 
 H Aving had the Honour, through Gods assistance, to be
a  meane,  though  cordiall Instrument,  of Vindicating  The
Soveraigne Power of Parliaments and Kingdomes,  in all
 Civill  or  Military  affaires which concerne the  State, 
in  Foure severall Volumes,  against all  Opposites  whatsoeever;
which they have (for the most part)  satisfied,  or put to  silence: 
I expected a  Quietus est  from all other  Controversies,  concerning the
 Iurisdiction of Parliaments,  especially in  Ecclesiasticall matters;  which
most imagined had been put to  eternall silence  when our  Lordly Prelates 
lost their  Votes  and  Session  in  Parliament,  by a publike Law: But (alas)
I know not by what evill  Genius,  and  Pythagorean Metempsychosis,  the
 Anti-Parliamentary  Soules, formerly dwelling in our  defunct Prelates 
earthly  Tabernacles,  are transmigrated into, and revived in a  New-Generation 
of men (started up of late among us) commonly known by
the  Name  of  INDEPENDENTS;  who, though for the most part
really cordiall in their Affections, Actions to the  Parliament  and
 Church  of  England,  (for which, and for their  piety  they are to bee
 highly honoured▪)  yet some of them are of late become extremely  derogatory, 
and  destructive  unto both, in their  Anarchicall  and  Anti-Parliamentary 
Positions: For which, and for  their late gathering of Independent
Churches,  contrary to Your  Parliamentary  Injunctions, they are to be
justly blamed, as great disturbers of our publike  Peace  and  Vnity. 
 It is the observation of learned Select. Disputat. de Quaest. in quibus sit Potestas Ecclesiastica.  Thes. 1. 4, &  5.   Voetius  and De Episcopatu Constantini Magni. p. 3. 4, 5, 6.   Vedelius,  That
the  Arminians  in the  Netherlands,  for the advancing of their owne
Faction, and more facill accomplishment of their private ill Designes,
did before the Synod of  Dort,  and in the beginning thereof,
exceedingly cry up the Power of the  Civill Magistrate,  and  States 
 
of  Holland,  in Ecclesiasticall matters, both by Writing and Preaching;
ascribing to them the highest Jurisdiction and Power of giving
ultimate Judgement in all Controversies of Faith, and Ecclesiasticall
matters arising in the  Church,  as a Prerogative belonging immediately
under Christ to them alone: And thereupon they appealed
to the  States,  from the Ecclesiasticall Classes, as the proper
 Iudges  of the Controversies they had raised in the  Belgick Churches. 
But at last, after the Synod of  Dort  had determined against their
 Arminian  Errors, and the See  Acta Synodi Dod . p. 3 5, 326, 327   States  established their Determinations,
prohibiting the Preaching or Printing of any  Arminian  Tenets, with
the private  Independent  Congregations and Conventicles of the  Arminian 
Party, they presently altered both their opinions and practice;
crying downe the Authority of the  States  and  Civill Magistrate,  as
fast as they had cryed it up, both in their Apologiae. c. 25.  See  Episcopius Disput. 32. Thes. 4. Mr. Rutherfords, Due Right of Presbyteries. p. 343, 344, 345 357, 358, 359.   Apologies  and  Sermons; 
contracting, yea denying them that very power which before they
had so liberally measured  ut unto them; affirming, that the  States 
had no power at all over their private Congregations: that it was not
any right or part of their Office to obliege men, by their authorities,
to the Decrees of Synods, however agreeable to the word of God;
and that they ought not to use any coactive Power or Authority in
such cases, to obliege them to conformity. 
 This Practice of the  Arminians  was, by Anti-apol gia. p. 157, 158.   M r  Thomas Edwards,  by way
of prediction, applied to the  Independents,  in these very tearmes:  And
it may be feared, however these  Apologists  NOW to ingratiate themselves,
and being let alone in their Church-way, say, they give more to the Magistrates
than the  Presbyteriall,  and that they professe to submit, and to be most willing
to have recourse to the Magistrates Iudgement, and Cognizance, and Examination
of  Ecclesiasticall Causes;  yet when they shall come once to be
crossed, and the  Parliament,  by the advice of the  Assembly,  to settle the
Government of the Church, and by their Authority to bind them to things agreeable
to the word, wee shall see then what they will say of the Magistrates
Power. There are too many speeches already, since the  Assembly,  (out of
their feare how they may goe) which have fallen from many  Independents, 
THAT PROGNOSTICATE, THEY WILL DOE BY THE PARLIAMENT,
AS THE REMONSTRANTS DID AFTER THE
SYNOD OF  DORT  BY THE STATES.  Which  Prognostication
 hath fallen out accordingly. For since that time our  Independents  having
felt the Pulses of the  Assembly  and  Parliament  bearing, but very
gently, by way of debate, against their  Anarchicall  and  Anomolous New-Way,
 (derived from their good friends, the See  Lac  Osiander his   Controversiarum cum Anabaptistis.  German Anabaptists  and 
 
 See Mr Rob sons Apology  Separatists,  and supported only with their Arguments, as I am fully able
to demonstrate;) they have not only in  Presse  and  Pulpit  cryed up their 
Way,  as the  Onely Way, Kingdome, and Scepter of Christ;  and denyed all
opposition in word, deed, or thought against it; as a direct See Mr. Iohn Goodwins Theomachia, and Innocencies Triumph.  FIGHTING
AGAINST GOD;  and promoted it publikely and privately with
all their  Industry, Policy, Power;  setting up New  Independent  Congregations
in every corner; but even with open mouth, pen, hand, (contrary
to their former Solemne  Vowes, Covenants, Protestations,  which I feare
they have over-much forgotten) cryed downe, and fought against the
very  Ecclesiasticall Power,  and  Legislative Authority  of the High Court of 
Parliament  it self, and Supreme Temporall  Magistrates:  proclaiming not
onely in their Mr. Iohn Goodwins Sermon, Febr. 25. 1643.  Pulpits,  but likewise in sundry late Reply to A. S. Mr. Iohn Goodwins Theomachia: and Inocencies Triumph. An Answer to Mr. William Prins Twelve Questions. My Brother Burtons Vindication. p. 5. 6.  &c.  Pamphlets,  wherewith
they have filled the World,  That every particular Congregation of visible
Saints, and Independent Church, is under the Government of Christ alone, as the
ONELY Head, King, Governour, Law-giver of it; and subject TO NO OTHER
IVRISDICTION, then that of Christ, his word and Spirit. That
NO POWER ON EARTH, NOR EARTHLY LAW-GIVERS MAY,
CAN, OR OVGHT TO GIVE LAWES, FOR THE GOVERNMENT
OF THIS REPVBLIKE, nor claime, nor exercise an Headship, or undertake
the Government of this Body. That neither KINGS, NOR PARLIAMENTS,
NOR SYNODS, have any Authority to prescribe Lawes or Rules
for the Churches Government, to order the affaires of Christs Kingdome, or
institute the Government of his Churches; or to make coactive Lawes, in any
Ecclesiasticall matters, to bind the conscience of any Church or Christian to outward
conformity, or inflict any mulcts or penalties for contempt or disobedience;
Christ onely being the Lord of mens consciences, which ought to be left at liberty.
That the Members of the Parliament are chosen but by a secular Root, by the Generality
and Riffe Raffe of the world, Papists, Atheists, Drunkards, Swearers,
Men voyd of the knowledge, feare, and grace of Christ:  And therefore
the  Independent  Brethren conceive  as great AN IMPOSSIBILITY, that
a Legitimate Ecclesiastick Power should, according to the mind of Christ, bee
by them conferred upon any men, or that they should have any Power or Authority
from Christ to nominate or appoint who shall bee the men, by vertue of
such nomination or election, to enact Lawes and Statutes in matters of Religion,
and to order under mulcts and penalties how men shall worship and serve God,
 as it is  (in  Jobs  expression)  to bring a cleane thing out of an uncleane. 
That the Parliaments claiming or exercising any such Ecclesiasticall Power, or
others attributing of it to them, is a meanes to awaken the eye of Jealousie upon
them, and seven times more destructive and under-mining of not onely
their Power, but Honour, Peace, nd Safety also, than any thing that is
 
found in the  Independent  Way, so ill entreated. That it is a claiming of
the sacred and incommunicable Royalties of Heaven; an accounting it no Robbery
to make themselves equall with God; and such an high provocation in the
eyes of the Most High, as IF CONTINVED IN  (by the Parliament)  will
kindle a fire in the brest of him whose name is  Jealous,  which will consume
and devoure.  Yea, one of them puts this Question, An Answer to Mr. Prynnes 12, Queres. p. 24. & 2.  If the whole Kingdome
may deny obedience unto Popish Acts and Canons, or upon any other like just
occasion, and they themselves bee Judges whether the occasion bee just or no;
Whether MAY NOT INDEPENDENTS, a part of the Kingdome onely,
doe the like in all respects? Or, Whether ought they, because a Lesser part of
the Kingdome, yeeld obedience to Popish Acts and Canons, because a Major part
approve of, and agree with a Parliament and Synod in approving them? What
if they should be for Popery again, Judaisme, or Turcisme? tis no offence to make
a Quere, nor impossible to come to passe; the greatest part of those that chose our
Parliament men being thought to be Popishly or Malignantly affected, &c.  Putting
divers such like  Queries,  destructive to the very fundamentall Power
and Being of  Parliaments;  and as bad or worse than the Popish  Gun-powder
Plot,  to blow up the Soveraign Ecclesiastick, and Civill Authority
of this High Court, in all succeeding Ages. 
 These, with infinite other Anti-Parliamentall, Anti-Synodicall, and
Anti-Monarchicall Paradoxes (at which I professe I stand amazed)
have not onely dropped from the  Lips,  but  Pens  of sundry  Independents, 
who have avowed them publikely in Print, with their Names affixed
to their Bookes, even before the face of Your Right Honourable  Parliamentary
Assembly  and Supreme Tribunall, in such open affront and high
contempt of Your undoubted Rights, Power, Priviledges, (which
Your Honours and wee all are obliged, by Late Solemne Oathes,
Covenants, Protestations, to defend, maintaine, with our very  Lives  and
 Estates;  and to discover, oppose all others who shall invade them, to
our uttermost power) as I am confident no Age, nor History can ever
parallel, in the least measure; the very  Malignant Prelates,  and  Anti-Parliamentary
Cavaliers,  having not proceeded, in this kind, so farre as they:
which I speake with deepest griefe of heart and spirit, out of  Conscience
of that common Vow and Covenant,  (which bindes mee to discover,
oppugne, reveale, abhorre it) and detestation of their most pernicious
Assertions, not out of the least malice or hatred to any of their Persons. 
 What the  Independents  end of publishing these desperate  Anti-Parliamentary
Paradoxes  should be, unlesse to prepare their party and all others,
as much as in them lies, utterly to reject whatever publike forme of
Church-Government, Discipline, Reformation, and Directory of Worship,
 
Your  Honours  by the advice of the Reverend  Assembly  shall establish
in our Church for the future, after all your serious consultations, debates,
paines, Prayers and Fastings about it; and to set up their owne
 Anomolous Platforme,  (which Reply to A. S. p. 111. Mr. Burtons Vindication. p. 54. 71.  they averre is  Christs Kingdome and Government;
and which may, upon probable and higher grounds than of reason,
bee thought in time to overthrow, and put downe all other Governments
whatsoever, and to stand up alone in their stead; since Christs Kingdome shall
stand up, when all opposite earthly Kingdomes, like earthen vessells, shall with
an Iron Rod bee dashed in peeces:  Which they close up with a  Faxit Deus
& festinet,)  in despight of Your Authority, and all humane Power
whatsoever, I cannot conjecture. And their owne late printed Passages,
with Feb. 15 1643.  Mr.  Iohn Goodwins  Sermon, (that  it would be more easie for
him, and hee should rather yeeld to bee torne in pieces by wild horses, than submit
to such a Government which proceeded from a Parliament, chosen by
the Riffe-raffe of the world, &c.)  intimate and expresse as much. Which,
what an high contempt it is against Your undoubted Power, and pious
Ecclesiasticall proceedings, in Reforming, setling the Doctrine,
Discipline, and Government of our Church, (the grand desire and
prayer of all wel-affected spirits) I most humbly submit to Your saddest
 thoughts  and deepest  wisedomes,  who have both Power and Authority
in Your hands to suppresse, incomparable Prudence and Providence
to prevent, these growing, dangerous  Insolencies,  before they
become  Masterlesse,  or  Epidemicall,  past Your cure. 
 Farre be it from my thoughts, to exasperate Your  Power  or  Iustice 
against any  Delinquents  of this kind; some whereof are so neare and
deare unto mee, that it is my heaviest affliction to mention their  extravagancies 
in this kind; of which I trust they (and all their followers)
will be now ashamed; and a  Brotherly Admonition  to their Persons
(though their Writings undergoe the sharper Censure) will
I hope induce them, upon second thoughts, both to discerne, lament,
recant their fore-mentioned  Paradoxes,  and abhorre themselves for
them even in dust and ashes, (as one of them Mr. Goodwin in his Innocencies Triumph. p. 5.   professeth hee will
doe, in case hee be convinced:)  And then if they will not bee reclaimed,
 Fiat Iustitia;  better some should suffer, than all perish. My onely
desire is, that Your Honours would have a speciall jealous care of
preserving your owne undoubted  Parliamentary Rights  and  Priviledges 
against these unparalleld publike  Violations, Impeachments  of them,
and of the tranquility, safety of our  Church  and  State,  endangered by
them. Toward the just defence whereof, I have (with as much expedition
as my many other distracting publike and private Imployments
 
would permit) contributed these my indigested  Nocturnall Lucubrations, 
(borrowed from the houres allotted to my necessary naturall
rest) in  Vindication  of the ancient and undoubted  Ecclesiasticall Power 
and  Iurisdiction  of  Parliaments, Christian Princes,  and  Magistrates;  (which
I have made good by sundry  Divine, Historicall  Presidents, and Authorities,
in all Ages) and answered all the chiefe Pretences, Objections
of  Papists, Prelates, Independents, Anabaptists, Separatists,  and all others
who oppugne them; in such a manner as I hope will silence them for
the present, and reforme them for the future. 
 It was my primitive  intention  and  desire  to have published this  Treatise 
complete at first; but it swelling to a greater bulk than I expected, and
my  engagements  in other publike services for the Common-weale retarding
my speedy progresse herein, I have thereupon divided it into two
 Parts:  the  First  whereof I here humbly tender to your  Honourable Patronage, 
till God and oportunity enable mee to complete the  Second;  of
which there is lesse Necessity, since learned Mr.  Samuel Rutherford,  in his
 Due right of Presbyteries,  and Mr.  Thomas Edwards,  in his  Anti-Apologia, 
(neither of them hitherto Answered by the  Independents,  and in truth unanswerable)
with  Gulielmus Apollonius  and the  Wallacrian Ministers, Consideratio
Quarundam Controversiarum,  &c.  quae in Angliae Regno hodie agitantur, 
newly published, will supply the present defect thereof; and this  First
Part  supply some particulars concerning the  Ecclesiasticall Power of Parliaments,
Christian Princes, Magistrates, Councells,  which are wanting in them,
and in laborious Sir  Edward Cookes  Fourth  Institutes;  who hath recorded
little or nothing concerning the  Jurisdiction  or  Power  of Parliaments in
 Ecclesiasticall  affaires, and matters of Religion. 
 Thus humbly submitting these my distracted subitane  Collections,  and
 Lucubrations,  to Your  Honourable favourable Acceptation;  and imploring
the God of  Verity,  of  Unity  speedily to dissipate all our  Errors,  and comprimise
all our unhappy  Divisions  (which threaten ruine to us, if continued)
by Your most Religious  Care, Wisedome,  and indefatigable  Endeavours, 
that so Rom. 15. 5. 6.   wee may bee all like minded one towards another, and may with
ONE MIND, and ONE MOVTH,  (in one  Way,  one  Congregation) glorifie
God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ:  I shall with my ferventest
 Orisons  daily recommend Your  Honourable Assembly,  with all Your
 pious Endeavours  for the Reforming, Setling of our Church, State, to
his Divine Benediction; and ever rest, 
 Your  Honours  most humble, 
devoted Servant, 
 William Prynne. 

