
 
 
 TO THE RIGHT VVORSHIPFVLL Sir  WILLIAM LYTTON  One of the Knights in Parliament, for the County of  Hertford. 
 SIR, 
 I T is a fault sometimes in good men, when they write to great men, to be too large in their praises, farre beyond their deserts; but  Jobs  rule shall be my guide, not to give flattering titles unto man. Your Father, Sir  Rowland Lytton,  being long dead, yet speaketh, there being in St.  Hieromes  phrase, concerning  Asella, Sermo silens,  and  Silentium loquens;  a silent speech, and a speaking silence: his workes of love to God, godlinesse, and good men, speake aloud in the eares of his Country, his name being very precious among them; Your selfe to my knowledge did expresse your love to God and your Country, and that in the hardest times, to the hazarding of your owne Liberty, and Fortunes, if not more: And all this while you have, with that Honourable Court,
 borne the burthen and heate of the day: yet they and you are not without some that are ready to murmure against you; It puts me in minde of  Africanus Superior,  who as  Valer. Maxim. lib.  5.  cap.  3. reports, made the City of  Rome,  (being in a Consumption, and ready to give up the Ghost) Lady of  Afrique;  but see his requitall: Afterwards, being Banished into a poore Country Towne, his will was, that his Tombe should have this Inscription upon it;  Ingrata Patria ne ossa quidem mea,  unthankefull Country, thou hast not so much as my bones. I know You have had a tender care, with others, to recover  Englands  consumption. And while with labouring for your Countries good, you bring your selfe to the
 Cineres ei suos negavit, quam in Cineres Collabi pastus non fuerat,  Valer.  ibid.  dust, I desire you may not (through the misapprehension of some, and indiscretion of others) have cause to cry out,  Ingrata Patria!  O unthankefull Country! God still make you constant to him, loyall to your Prince, loving to your Country. Thus asking pardon for my boldnesse, and Patronage for these poore lines, I shall alwayes rest, 
 Your humble servant for your Soules good, though unworthy Kinsman. THO. ROTHERHAM. 
 E Musaeo,   Septemb.  25. 1643. 

