
 
 
 To the Right Honorable, The Committee at  Derby -House. 
 Right Honorable, 
 I Have herewithal given your Lordships an accompt of passages in our late advancing against the Rebels; the observations therein given, drawn up by others, have been perused and approved for true by such as were upon the place & action: It is much from my dispositiō to take notice, much less thus to publish matters of this kinde, wherein I am so concerned; But at this time I have been thereunto enforced, in the over-forwardness of some who have taken upon them to give out Relations of this Service, not onely short, but far from truth, and of much disadvantage to the Publique. This Victory had been well leading to a perfect Conquest of this Kingdom, were we thereunto enabled by supplies of Men, Moneys, and other Provisions necessary for the Service. In the very noise of what is now done, I might (by Gods assistance) have advanced far into the enemies chiefest strengths, and well nigh at once shut up what of this work were to be done in this Province, had I
 
been furnished with Carriages, Provisions and Pay for the Soldiers, for want of which I have been enforced to march home, whereby time and means may be given to the Enemy for recruiting, to our further disadvantage: for we had not provisions of Victuals in the field for one day, and Money there was not here for one weeks Pay. That of greatest value seized on, was the Train of Artillery, and particularly Sixty four Oxen, worth 16. l.  the yoke: These were the Soldiers due, who possessed themselves of them; yet I have gathered them in from several hands for the publike service, promising recompence out of the publike Treasure, which I desire may there be thought upon, and satisfaction therein given: Our loss was not in men (not twenty being found missing) but in horse, many whereof were kill'd, and rendred unserviceable; the Riders are cast off from present service, if not again mounted, which I humbly desire may be there thought of, for the speedy and vigorous prosecution of the War, which is to be done principally by Horse and Dragooners, the Foot not being able to march in winter. I am 
 Your Lordships most humble Servant, MICHAEL JONES. 
 Dublin,  12 Aug. 1647. 

