
 
 TO THE HONOURABLE THE House of COMMONS in Parliament Assembled at  Westminster. 
 Honourable, and Renowned Worthies, 
 T He subject which I have treated on was well worthy of  your eares:  but very unseemly for  my tongue.  Yet because  WISDOME  which is  THE EXCELLENCY OF KNOWLEDG  is so  exceeding necessary  to make  poore England  once more  happy,  therefore I have endeavoured to quicken your desires and prayers for the attaining of a  full measure,  that the  want  of all other  rankes  may be supplied out of your  abundance.  We have amongst us the  worst of evils, A CIVILL
 
WARRE. A KINGDOME DIVIDED AGAINST IT SEEFE.  The Nations round about us might justly apply St.  Pauls  reproofe of the  Corinthians  unto us with a very little alteration  *.  And how can we choose but apply   Cor. 6. 5, 9.   it unto our selves? It may be said of  England  now as  *  one sometime said of  France, THAT THERE IS MORE   de Cle¦g is de lapsu  eparatione  . cap.  10.  RIGHTEOUSNESSE IN HELL, THEN IN THIS KINGDOME.  For there norighteous man is afflicted, nor any wicked man punished unrighteously: but here good and evill men are all involved in common miseries, and suffer either on the one side, or on the other, and too often by both. I speake not this either to blame Gods righteous judgements, or your necessary defence of your selves, and endeavours to suppresse the Forces raised against you; but to represent the most miserable condition of this distressed, and almost-utterly-destroyed  Kingdome.  As touching outward meanes to redresse these grievances, our hopes are in  your wisdome, WHO ARE MEN THAT HAVE UNDERSTANDING OF THE TIMES, TO KNOW WHAT ISRAEL OUGHT TO DOE *.  And suppose   Chro. 12. 3 .  the Lord  should be so  gracious  unto us, that we might have just occasion  to beate our Swords into Plowshares, and our Speares into Pruning-hookes *,  which is the unfained    4. 3.   desire of all the  well-affected;  there is a further taske to try  your wisdome.  For what is it that is expected from you as chosen instruments under God for his speciall service in these daies? Surely no lesse, (if I may use that Scripture phrase proverbially, as some interpret it)  *  then  a new  on the  ation.  Heavens, and a new Earth, wherein dwelleth righteousnesse.  That is,  A REFORMED CHURCH, A REFORMED COMMON-WEALTH.  For the  one,  we have had the  name  a long time, (as  Sardis  had a name to live, 
 
 and was dead.) And for the  thing,  we had it  in part,  now we would have it  intirely, and without mixture. The other,  viz.  the Common-wealth  must be suteable to the former. It's a charge laid upon those Worthies who laboured for  reformation  * By Dr.  Jackson.   in the daies of  QUEENE ELIZABETH OF BIESSED MEMORY,  and after, as if they had wink'd at the corruptions of the State which were knowne and certaine, and pretended to singular holinesse in the businesse of  Religion  as it is strictly considered. It ought therefore to be the lesse offensive if the  Watchmen  of this present generation do sound their Trumpets louder than heretofore, and cry out in good earnest for  A REALL REFORMATION,  The substanc  of the Covenant.   as among themselves, and in things Ecclesiasticall, so in  your selves  likewise, and in all affaires and businesses whatsoever.  Be not deceived, God is not mocked.  It will not be taken at our hands  that our goodnesse be like the morning dew,  or that we should be like  Ephraim, a Cake halfe baked.  God requires more. He promises grace for more. The  Word,  and the  Rod,  in both which God stretches out his hand and says,  Behold me, behold me,  must teach us  to perfect holinesse in the feare of God.  The  NOBLES OF BOHEMIA  in the preface before the confession of their Faith rehearse some  propheticall passages  of their Ministers; and particularly, the words of  JOHN Hus,  to this effect:   Corpus & S tagma Confess¦num,  part 2 p. 224.  We  (speaking of himselfe, and other teachers of that age)  as yet goe but about the surface of the businesse, and see as it were through Latices, or a Cloud, not piercing to the inward parts: but a people shall succeed which shall dive into the bottome of the businesse, and build on the solid foundation. Yet this must be done by little and little. And it shall be effected with great pressure and affliction, and with exceeding difficulty.  All this is very conso  to Scripture and experience, and 
 
 therefore the more to be heeded. Reformation must proceed from one degree to another,  TILL THE LAMBES WIFE HAVE MADE HER SELFE READY, &c.  Rev. 19. 7.   And untill those other prophecies be accomplished which I shall but point you to peruse, and that because they concerne  both States.  Isatah  1. 25, 26, 27.  Revel.  11. 15. 
 If the question be,  When shall these things be?  It must needs be answered  in part  with the words of Christ,  It is not for you to know the times and seasons which the Father hath put in his owne power  Acts 1. 7. .  And yet it must also be  added,  that the time for us to endeavour it is  now, even while it is called to day. 
 For our parts who are  Ministers,  we know it, and rejoyce in it.  Christ must increase, we must decrease,  untill the time come,  That the Moone shall be confounded, and the Sunne ashamed, when the Lord of Hosts shall reigne in Mount Sion, and in Jerusalem, and before his ancients gloriously  See  Calvin  on Isaiah 24. 23. . 
 As for you that are  Magistrates,  and now sitting in the  Supreame judicatory of this Kingdome,  I beseech you to consider what is expected of you, and from you. Shall tyranny, bribery, oppression, partiality, covetousnesse escape unpunished, or remaine unreformed any where? Will God humble  Monarchy,  and destroy  arbitrary government  every where, (as certainely he will) and let inferiour Magistrates degenerate into the same sinnes? Must scandalous Ministers be cast out  as unsavoury Salt unto the dung-hill,  and shall scandalous people live as if they were Lawlesse? 
 All this is but to  praise,  Qui monet ut faciat, &c.  encourage,  and  strengthen you  in your holy purposes and resolutions, notwithstanding the difficulty of the worke in hand, and the  mighty mountaines of opposition  which are raised in the way. What remaines, but that you be  reall, resolute,  and  exemplary  in the worke 
 
 of reformation. For thus saith the Lord.  If ye throughly amend your waies and your doings, if ye throughly execute judgement betweene a man and his neighbour—. Then will I cause you to dwell in this place, in the Land that I gave to your fathers, for ever, and ever  Jer. 7. 5,  7. .  The Lord furnish you with all the fruits of his Spirit, whereby you may be enabled hereunto. 
 I shall not presume, (that be farre from me) to direct  your wisdomes  in any part of the great worke which is before you. Onely touching the meanes of attaining that wisdome which I have spoken of, I beseech you consider those words of David   Psal. 119. 99, 100. . I have more understanding then all my Teachers, for thy testimonies are my meditation. I understood more then my Ancients, because I kept thy precepts.  I know your businesse is  great,  and your spare houres but  a few.  You cannot read  much,  nor it may be pray  long.  Yet even in the Campe  Alexander  would finde time to read  Homer,  Quintus Curtius.   and from him he might soone learne how to husband time.   . H .  .  .   The bookes of  Samuel, the Kings,  and  Chronicles  are proper for you, and  a key to the Prophets.  There are many prayers with you and for you, but your owne humility and fervency in private will afford you most comfort. And that your  practicall wisdome,  according to the rule of Scripture  may be seene and read of all men  in all your proceedings, and a blessing from Heaven upon them, is and shall ever be the prayer of him who is 
 Humbly and affectionately devoted to your service in Christ Jesus.  LAZARUS SEAMAN. 
 

