
 
 
 TO THE RIGHT HONORABLE  JOHN,  Earle of  Exeter,  Baron of  Burley,  &c. 
 Noble Lord, 
 M Any whose eyes are upon your Lordship, do acknowledge the good hand of the Lord towards you, not in conferring eminency of honour
 
upon you in your minoritie, (as it were, before your time) but in giving you a serious discerning spirit, farre above your yeers, whereby they conceive great hope, and powre out many prayers to the Lord, that he may in due time bring you forth in publique, as a choice Instrument in the hand of your God,  to do worthily Ruth 4. 11   in Ephratah, and to be famous in Bethlehem. 
 Among others the publishers of this small Treatise, (part whereof being the Meditatiōs, of a pious yong man, now with God, and the residue the labour of a reverend Divine) to declare their great affection to your Lordship, have importuned mee to recommend
 
this Tractate to your Honour, conceiving, that under your Lordships Name these Meditations not only may appeare to the world with some access of lustre, but that the influence they may have upon some hereby may prove more available. 
 The subject herein handled, is about the choice of that which scarce yet ever entered into your serious thoughts, yet it is wisdome to store up good rules before you need to use them: Mariners learne their skill before they launch into the deeps: All Artists study the Theory before the Practice; Wise men are long in contemplation,
 
before they adventure upon action: It's a known rule, Deliberation must be long, where Determination can be but once; and where there is no admission of second thoughts to reverse a former errour, the first thoughts must be carefull, that errour be prevented. 
 In the interim, before the Lord incline your heart to think of any choice that way on earth, be intreated to make your choice in heaven; that the Lord Jesus may be the guide of your youth, & so the God of your age, that God may say of you:  I remember the kindness Jere. 2. 2.   of thy youth, and the love of thy espousals. 
 Surely it can be no disparagement, for the greatest of men to betroth themselves to the great God, to contract spirituall alliance  with innumerable companies of Heb. 12. 22, 23.   Angels and Souls made perfect,  and to match with him Eph. 3. 15.   of whom the whole familie of Heaven and Earth is called. 
 Satan hath done his utmost to brand the servants of God with ignominy, and to deterre men of quality from owning the way called holy. It is not long since some of our Nobility, eminent E. M.  for pietie, paralleled our age with the sad times of Cogunt   ss  ma     sse v les  Sal▪ de Prov.   Salvian,  wherein the complaint was, that great men were forced to be more sinfull,
 
that they might not be reputed to be lesse honourable. 
 But God hath begun to take away the reproach of his people from off the earth; and doubtless, will make his servants an eternall excellency, when men of carnall policies  shall be made an abhorring to all s . 66. 24.   flesh. 
 You cannot make any choice higher, nor is it possible you should begin too soone to love him, who hath loved you from all eternitie. Love of all affections is most active, and in youth predominant; It's restles till it fix, and if it fix any where below Christ, it debaseth it selfe, and may easily be enthralled, but cannot
 
easily be disingaged: What pittie is it those vitall streames should run in a channell that goes downe to the Chambers of death? 
 I hope the Father of mercies is looking towards your Lordship, and saying unto you as once unto his Church,  Surely, this is a time of love. Ezek. 16. 8.  Your pious mother, whom I may truely call an  Elect Lady,  is to your Lordship as another  Monicha  to Saint  Augustine;  You are the sonne of many prayers: and as  Salomon  was to  Bathsheba,  You are the sonne, not onely of  her wombe, but of her vowes; Pro. 31 1.  Shee hath learned to love Filii diligend  sunt in Deo,   propter Deum.  you in the Lord, and for the Lord: The longings of her
 
soule, are for your spirituall Quid Christus nisi Deum in nobis dilexit, non quem habebamus sed ut haberemus,  Lomb. l. 3. D. 27.  and eternall good. It is one of her greatest comforts on earth, that shee hath such a sonne to call her mother: But it will be farre greater, even the Crowne of her glory, to see you the adopted sonne of the eternall Father, and that God hath honoured you, even in your youth, to obtain an Inheritance among them that are sanctified. 
 You are left in your fathers familie, with your hopefull sister, as the onely branches of many, which have long since ceased from among men. And when the destroying Angel was smiting all, the Father of mercies looked upon you, and
 
said,  Destroy him not, for a blessing Isa. 65. 8.   is in him. 
 The Lord delight to fill you with all spirituall blessings in heavenly things, and make it every day more and more appeare, that God hath reserved you to be blessed, and to be a blessing to your family, to your Countrey, and to the Kingdomes. And when your Lordship▪ settles in the world, you may begin with  Josuahs  fixed resolution,  I and my house will serve the Jos. 24. 15   Lord.  And that you may shew forth the grace of him that hath  called you out of darknesse,  and the shadow of death,  into his marvellous light;  that they that observe your Lordship may see, that greatnesse and
 
goodnesse, as they are inseparable in God, so they are not incompatible to the sonnes of men. That so you may rejoyce above all greatnesse, that you have your name written in the  Lambes book of life,  and you may look beyond death▪ and the grave, and see your greatest portion in eternitie; which is the earnest prayer of 
 Your Lordships servant, JER: WHITTAKER. 

