
 
 
 To the Honourable House of Commons assembled in  PARLIAMENT. 
 T His Sermon which I preached by your command, and you harkned unto with much acceptance, and is now printed by our Order, I most humbly present unto your Gracious Patronage, and Religious practice; It hath this only in it; that it is seasonable; what one once writ to  Aegidius  the Abbot of  Norinberg  concerning  Davids  words in  Psalme  118. They are  verba vivenda, non legenda:  That may be affirm'd of the Text I preached on, the pith and matter of it should be lived, and not heard only: Repentance is a living word:  Alexander  (as  Plutarch   Orat. 1. de Alex.   reports) demanded of  Porus  (whom he had surprised) what his thoughts were of him, he answered, I thinke of  Alexander, Regaliter, 
 
and thats enough said hee, for in that word all other things are contained: the same I may say, if any man demands what our sinfull and distracted Kingdome should doe? I answer,  Repent,  and in that word (if lived and done) all our safeties and hopes are contained. 
 There were 3. things (most Honourable Sirs!) which  Luther  did feare would prove  Melchior Adam: in vita Luther:  p. 157. 158.  to bee the Ruine of Religion. 1. Oblivion. 2 Security. 3. Carnall policy: The good  God  overthrow these in our Land, least our land be overthrowne by these: Though Ministers discover all sorts of sins, and though a  Parliament  discovers all sorts of plots and dangers, yet people are setled on their Lee's, they will not see, nor feare, nor humble themselves, nor turne to the Lord at all;  O pray,  (said a dying man in the beginning of the  German  reformation) that God would preserve the Gospell  (pontifex enim Romanus, & Concilium Trident. mira moliuntur)  For the Pope and Councell of  Trent  are hatching of strange things: Ministers say as much and more to people, pray, be humbled, reform; For you see what the bloudie Papists have done in  Ireland,  and you heare what they are plotting against  England,  we do thus
 
speak and weepe, but man will not hearken and obey; They who will not easily see their sins, will as hardly beleeve their dangers:  Fuge, fuge Brenti! cito, citius, citissime,  so friendly did a  Senatour  of  Hala  advise  Brentius,  hast, hasten, make all the hast you can, your life is lost else: He embraced the advise, & preserved his life by it; O that Gods advises (so frequent, so earnest, so and more safe) to humbling and reforming might once bee regarded and followed: we shall never be safe, if wee ever remaine impenitent. 
 As for your selves, Honourable Sirs! wee have all cause to blesse God for the worthy Acts already done by you, and for your further intentions of most excellent good to our Church and Kingdom; Ripen these intentions (wee pray you) into Actions▪ That our Church may be glorious, and our State safe; and both flourishing and stable: good actions are excellent, though evill men oppose them, nor shal they be therfore, the lesse successeful: remember that Christ hath conquerd all the world, and a world conquerd by Christ shall never be able to conquer truth. 
 I have one request which I earnestly present
 
to your selves and the House of Lords, It is onely this, Hasten (what you can)  Englands  Reformation, and  Irelands  preservation: In these the good and Almighty God unite, strengthen, protect, and prosper you All, To whose everlasting armes, you and all your pious endeavours are commended by your daily Oratour. 
 Obadiah Sedwicke. 
 Die Mercurij 25. May 1642. 

