
 
 TO THE RIGHT HONORABLE HOVSE OF LORDS Assembled in Parliament. 
 My Lords, 
 S Hort warning is some apologie for slight performances, and what I cannot farther fairely  excuse,  your noble Candor can freely  pardon.  The Citie Petition for execution of Iudgement,  Ordin. Octo.  24. 1644.  and your Golden  Ordinance,  for giving no quarter to Irish, or Papists borne in Ireland, taken in Armes against the Parliament; led my thoughts to this Argument, as seasonable, if not as necessary.    Gladitus, à vastando dictus, à     devastatus fuit.  The  Sword  like it selfe,
  layeth waste and desolate;  bleeding  England groaneth and cryeth,  Ierm. 47.6.   O thou sword of the Lord, how long will it be ere thou be quiet? put up thy selfe into thy scabbard, rest and be still:  Many Soveraigne  sword-quieting  Remedies have been recommended to your  Honours:  as  faith  acted,  prayer  fervent,  Humiliation  unfained,  reformation  reall, of persons and families. And this of  executing Iudgement,  hath in it an healing vertue also. Though when all is done, Christ alone must dry up our bloudy issues, and that  living Corner-stone,  must be our  blood-stone.  It was your  Honours  just attempt long agoe, to bring  delinquents  to condigne  punishment,  the opposition whereof by an adverse partie, hath occasioned these Civill warres, and intestine broyles in the Nation, so that the Case of the  Israelites  opposed by the  Benjamites,  runs  Parallel  with our present quarrels; The  Israelites  had a  generall Assembly,  a kind of  Parliament,  whereto complaint is made by the  Levite,   Iud. 19. last.  against the  men of Gibeah  for their horrid, their  nonsuch  delinquencie. Hereupon the Assembly
   Orders  and  Decreeth  their punishment, sends out  Messengers  to the  Benjamites,   Iud. 20.  and fairely  demands  that those  Children  of  Belial  might be by them  delivered up to Iustice;  but the  Benjamites would not hearken to their Brethren the Israelites;  take up Arms rather to protect their Delinquents: and thus the  war began,  which for a while  went  on  dubiously,  for the  Israelites  (though friends to Truth and Iustice) lost  in two battailes fortie thousand men;  yet the warre  ended successefully.  God directed the  Israelites  to a  Stratagem,  whereby  all the Benjamites except six hundreth were destroyed.  And all this may  Incourage  your Honours to  work  for, and  wait  on God. And when perhaps some  else-where Nobles,  may be solemnizing  The Solemn Festivals.  Decemb.  25.  these  approaching Idolized Festivals,  with Playes and Interludes, which in  Ludorum scenicorum delicata est insania. Aust. lib.  1.  de Civ. Dei. cap.  32.   Austins  Language is a  delicate madnesse,  Your  Honours,  I hope, will be  fasting, praying, hearing,  and  receiving the word with all readines of mind,  which will be your  Act. 17.11.  , more noble.  non genere, sed virtute & pietate nobiles, Bez. in Loc.   Berean Nobilitie;  And though others may be hatching devilish  designes  for the pouring out of
   blood Innocent;  Your  Honours  will ingage your Selves in due  execution of Iudgement;  and so offer to God a  Isa. 34.5,6.   sacrifice  of  blood nocent.  I know there may be many  Politick Reasonings  in the Case, but when God giveth out a  Command,  he expecteth  downright Dutie,  not any subtle Dispute. A due and Regular execution of Iudgement, will gild over your  Coates  of  Honour,  and as it were  Royalize  your  blood  already  noble.  The  Heathens  got a name, a kinde of immortalitie, for their morall endowments;  Socrates  for his  wisdome, Aristides  for  Iustice, Cicero  for his  eloquence,  and  Cato  for  gravitie,  &c. And your  Lordships  zeale for God in execution of Iudgement, will make posteritie to mention your Names and Families with Honour. I am 
 Your Lordships to serve you in and for the Lord of Lords: EDMUND STAUNTON. 

