
 
 
 TO THE HONORABLE Committee of the County of  K nt. 
 Honored 
 G Ive mee leave to bespeake you in a word of an Apologetick preface for this my intrusiō upon your goodnesse. After sixteene yeares residence in  Oxford,  and many yeares
 forraigne travells, upon my returne in these tumultuous times not being able to enjoy my owne charge in  Oxford  I betooke my selfe to sea imployment under the Right Honorable the Earle of  VVarwick,  and after two voyages my lot for residence fell into  Rochester,  and called to Saint  Margarets,  have there two yeares exercised my ministery comfortably. Here after my dispatch of the
 whole doctrine of the new Covenant, I let fall some conclusions in satisfaction to doubts now agitated in the world, whereof the first was the subject of this new Covenant, to wit, the Church, which unexpectedly were not so cleare to some as I intended and wisht for. After I contracted their largeness into this modell, and delivered them in Graves-end. Exceptions
 were taken by such as heard them not delivered, but by report, and the Author thereof defamed, with what bitternesse let others that heard it judge. I was therefore required for my owne vindication, and such noble Friends as had cast a gracious aspect upon mee to publish them, which here I now humbly present to your censure and patronage, who now (blessed bee
 God) are the happy instruments of the peace of the County. I have not to my best memory omitted nor added a materiall passage or sentence, except the examination of the termes in Scripture signifying a Church as  V. T.    and   which the Septuagint for the most part render by   though sometimes the various readings of  Aquila, Symachus,  and  Theodorus 
 gives that by  . The  N. T.  use still   which the Syriack translation expresse by the former word   or   familiar also in the very same sense with all the Orientals, so that I inferred as a generall issue from the Etymon of the word,
 A Church was a collected body called together in the businesse of the Lord. 
 This is the substance
 of all was omitted from the first delivery, which I have not inserted in this Copy, because I did beleeve the excepter would not trouble himselfe with any examination of the cryticisme. My spirit I confesse hath ever been averse to publish or to have beene taken notice of this way, I am too conscious of my owne weakenesse and insufficiencies to seek to make a noyse: my
 inclination to obscurity and retirednesse is wel knowne, and a meane condition (if a setled one) in privacy to apply my thoughts to study hath beene always my strongest intentions. Other things of greater importance (in literature I meane) I have prepared, which did providence see good to give me a setled condition (wherein I might compose my thoughts to a setled sixtnesse,
 and center my selfe in some rest to follow my study, the greatest outward mercy I long for and value in this life) I should humbly begge your patronage and protection. In the interim untill Divine providence shall effect so great mercy to mee: giue mee leave to beg your patronage & protection of this rude draught ( ) of the nature of a Church) and let mee subscribe
 my selfe to bee ever really found, 
 Your most humble and faithful servant in the Lord,
Will: Sandbrooke. 
 From my study in  Rochester,   Nov.  20. 1646. 

