
 
 
 To the Right Honourable the Lord Major and Court of Aldermen, of the famous City of  London. 
 Right Honourable, and Right Worshipfull: 
 A  Word spoken in season, 
 .  is a word upon the wheeles  Solomon  tels us.  Prov. 25.11.  both  grateful  and  successefull,  which is the blessing that I begge of God upon these poore and meane endeavours, which in obedience to your command I humbly present unto you. 
 It was the fittest subject that in this juncture of time I could fix my thoughts upon, when mens hearts are too generally turned to hate Gods people, and to deale deceitfully with his servants; therby (I feare) to prepare instruments in judgement for that last act of the tragedy upon the Saints in the Reformed Churches, the killing of the witnesses, which I conceive, as the bitterest affliction, and the sharpest persecution is yet to come. 
 God hath put great opportunity into your bands, and it may be hath raised you to honour for such a time as this: do you countenance, and act for the Lords holy ones, and it shall be accepted as a service by him who is King of Saints: doe you become as a correcting Cherube unto this Arke of God among you: for next to the honourable title of  Defender of the Faith,  is that of  Protector of the faithfull:  for God and his people are engaged in the same cause and quarrel and all opposition shall end in the destruction of the opposers,
 and they shall perish by their hands whom they oppose, even by  the vengeance of the Temple. 
 But no man will ever be faithfull to the Saints, but hee that is himselfe a Saint, in whom the spirit of God dwels as a man, and acts as a Magistrate; all other men though they may give good words for a time, yet they will meet with a  , an opportunity of temptation, and they will fall off,
 Pelago se non ita commissurus esset, quin quando liberet, pedem referre posset.  engaging themselves in the cause of the Saints no further, then may stand with their present purposes, and designes: As the King of  Navarre  told.  Bez.  he would lanch no further into the Protestant cause, then he might see which way to put into a safe harbour. 
 There is nothing that concernes  Magistrates  more then to gaine the hearts, and keepe the prayers of these  beloved ones,  and they must be faithfull to God that shall expect it; for God and his Saints are in a League  offensive  and  defensive, 
 Simulatque faedus cum Romanis percusseris; noli expectare alium de me calumniatorem, sed statim veluti hosti populi Romani cavendum puta. Polyb. hist. l. 3.  and the Saints are ready to say to men as  Hanniball  did to King  Antiochus,  while he continued an enemy to the Romans, so long he should be sure of him as a friend; but if once he made a League with them, he should immediately looke upon him as his enemy; so doe the Saints say, while faithfull to God; they are firme to you; but if you be false to God, it will not be long ere you will be  cast out  of the  hearts  of his people also. 
 And that you may cleave close to the people of God, there is a great deale of  courage  required in these  dangerous  and  doubtfull  times; in which  mercies  are accounted  injuries,  and to give thankes for them is set upon men as a  brand of cruelty and infamy,  when so many forsake their first  Principles,  and labour to  build  againe that which hitherto they have  destroyed.  At this time I say, men have neede of  courage,  or else they will  feare and faint, and fly  when danger presents it selfe. 
 Truely  duty  is better then  safety,  and  suffering  is better
 then  sinning  or  shifting;  crooked wayes will never bring a man to right ends; there is too much of the Serpent in them;  a lying tongue is but for a moment,
 Perde te,   pereas. Salv.  and he that will save his life shall lose it. 
 Satan hath an especiall  designe  upon men of  eminency and authority  in such times as these, that he may carry them in  Tryumph,  and act by them to the corrupting of many. As the Romanes having an evill eye upon  Ptolomy  King of Egypt for his wealth, which they resolved to seize upon, but knew not how to pick an occasion, he being in League with them; therefore they appoynted  Cato  a man in high esteeme for justice and uprightnesse, as  Publicus Praedo, ut summa turpitudo facti authoritate tanti viri aliquantulum tegeretur,  by the name of the man to collour over the basenesse of the act; so Satans great designe of late hath beene upon the  Stars  in our Horizon, and wee may with feare remember how many are fallen. 
 Engage yee therefore with and for the Saints, and let the present dangers raise your resolutions: a great minde doth rise by difficulties, and true courage is heightned by oppositions. Let the birelings fly, let meteours fall, and those that have cleaved to the Church of God by flattery be detected; yet is the  righteous an everlasting foundation.  Let the blessing of Ioseph be on your heads whom God hath seperated from your brethren:  let your bow abide in strength, and the armes of your hands be made strong by the hands of the mighty God of Jacob,  which shall be the constant and dayly prayer of 
 Your Servant in the Gospel,  William Strong. 

