
 
 
 To the Honourable THE COMMONS OF ENGLAND, Assembled in PARLIAMENT. 
 G OD hath made all his Ministers  Stewards, 1 Cor. 4.1.2.  and a great Trust hee hath committed to them, Heb. 13.17.   The mysteries of God, 2 Cor. 2.17.   and the soules of men.  That they may rightly discharge this Trust, 2 Cor. 3 11.  a double qualification is required in them,   and  ,  Ephes. 4. 4.   sincerity  of spirit and  liberty  of speach: We are neither
 to use a  , a sleight of hand to  wrest the word  to our sense; nor a  , to temper it to the lusts of men. . Clem. Alex. Strom. l. 7.  . Iustin. Mart. Epist. ad Lenam & Serenum.  2 Cor. 4. 2. Ier. 23.31.  Let false Prophets  smooth their tongues,  and fill the eares of deluded soules with spirituall flatteries. Those that God hath sent, must speak  as the Oracles of God,  not sparing the sinnes, nor fearing the faces of men,  least they be confounded before them:  And amongst all that confluence of mercy, which I desire may be powred down upon your Honourable Assembly from Heaven, this is not the least, that God may give you, and continue unto you  Pastors after his owne heart,  who may discharge their trust with boldnesse and faithfulnesse towards God and you; and that  you may receive with meeknesse the engraffed word, which is able to save your soules. 
 What is here presented to your veiw, I hope gave no offence in the delivery, neither will it in the reveiw, being made publike by your command. However, I have discharged what I apprehended to bee my duty, Bonae. res neminem scandalizant, nisi mala   entem,  Tertul de veland. virgin. cap. 7.  to God, to you, and to the whole Kingdome in you; for the  wounds of this people will never be healed with sweet words.  If any
 one shall conceive something to be spoken here, as savouring of too much boldnesse and plainnesse; I must answer him with  Salvian  in a like case,  Non à mea sibi haec linguâ dici aestimet, sed à conscienti suâ;  It is not my tongue, but his own heart which makes the Application. 
 Two great evils God hath blamed in his people in all Ages, Vt accipinat importuni, donec acceperunt inquieti, &  bi acce erunt ingrati.  Bern. de consider, l. 4. c. 2.  unthankfulnesse for mercies, and wantonnesse under them. 
 1.  Vnthankfulnesse;  Wee are very apt to bee importunate for mercies, when we want them; and to despise and under-value them when we doe enjoy them. Its a very hard matter to have the same esteeme of them in our prayses, which we had in our prayers. God hath honoured, loaden, yea crowned you with mercies; his  faithfulnesse and truth hath been your sheild and buckler:  Hee hath not onely given you these Ancient mercies, that of 88 and this: The Remembrance of which you did upon this day celebrate; but hee hath shewed you greater things then these; that you and the world may wonder; hee hath since delivered you, from many invincible Armadoes, and many Powder Plots
 at once. Let these mercies never wax old to you; Haec beneficii intet duos lex est. Alter statim oblivisci debet dati, alter accepti nunquam.  Sen. de benes. l. 2. c. 10.  it is an evill that we are all prone to, that as time will weare out the sense of sinne, so it will the esteeme of mercy; and hee that shall keep either the one, or the other alway fresh before him, had need be annointed daily  with fresh Oyle. Docuerunt linguam suam grandia loqui, cum operentur exigua. Largissimi promissores, & parrissimi exhibitores, &c.  Bern. de confider, l. 4. c. 2.  Neither should our thankfulnesse bee onely the fruit of the Lips, but of the Life,  The Lord is better pleased with the language of our hands, then with the language of our tongues.  And this must not be for a day and no more; mercies are eternall obligations; and while wee enjoy the fruit of them, its but reasonable that God should have the glory; and that we should say with  Hezekiah, The Lord was ready to save us, therefore wee will sing our songs to the stringed instruments, all the dayes of our life in the house of the Lord,  Esay, 38.20. 
 2.  Wantonnesse under mercies;  Iesuron  may wax fat and kick;  and when  the filling of a people is according to their pasture, Deut. 32.15.  Ieshuron à   aspexit solicite, observavit: quia Israelitae viderunt presentiam gloriae divinae.  Shind l. Hos. 13.6.   their hearts may be lifted up, and they may forget the Lord;  It was  Vzziah  his sinne and ruine,  hee was mightily helped till he was strong, and then his he rt was lifted up to his own destruction.  To
 loose the fruit of an affliction is a great provocation, but much more the fruit of a mercy; when cords of love make a people sit more loose from God, to draw iniquity with cords of mercy, this is the highest way of sinning. 
 Its a great testimony that is given of  Iehosaphat, The Lord established the Kingdome in his hand, 2 Chron. 26.15  Perdidistis utilitatem calamitatis, & miserremi facti estis & pessimi p rmansistis,  Austin. de civit. l. 1. c. 33. 2 Chron. 17.5.6.  His vincit, qui se vincit in victoria.   and all Iudah brought him presents; and hee had riches and honours in abundance; and his heart was lift up in the wayes of the Lord.  Wee should be like a spire Steeple, which is  minimus in summo;  least in our own eyes, when God hath made us greatest in the eyes of other men; we should acknowledge the Lord to bee the  God of our mercies,  make him the  God of our prayses,  and consecrate not onely the mercy to him with  Hannah,  but our selves also, as  Hezekiah  exhorteth, to  give the hand,  and as the Churches of  Macedonia  did, who  gave themselves to the Lord. 2 Chron. 30.8.  There is as great danger of mercies as of any of Gods dispensations: 2 Cor. 8.5.  Our mercies may become our snares,  and that which should have beene for our welfare may become a trap,  to take us; for  the ground that drinks
 in this raine  of mercies, as well as that of ordinances, and  brings not forth herbes meet for him by whom it is dressed, is nigh to cursing.  These will make the sinnes of people like Summer fruits, Socrati cum multa multi pro suis quisque facult hus offerrent, Aesc ines pauper Aud tor, Nihil (inquit) dignum te, quod dare tibi possim, inve o. Itaque dono t bi quod unum habeo, me ipsum,  Sen. de benef. l.  . c. 8. Amos 8.1.  ripen them the sooner. 
 If it prove so with us, wee must remember that there bee  changes of the right hand of the most high; Psal. 77 10.  mutat ones dexiera,  Cal.  hee may repent of these mercies, as he did,  that he had made  Saul  King;  he may  become our enemy,  and fight against us, and may resolve to destroy us,  after he hath done us good. 
 The light that God hath caused to rise to us in obscurity, Iosh. 24.20. Zach. 14.6.  is such as is  neither clear nor dark;  we are in  continuo crepusculo;  we cannot as yet say all our feares are over, and that the Sunne hath risen upon us to a perfect day; and hence it comes to passe, every mans heart is  become a merchant,  Psal. 38.10.  traffiking too and fro, not knowing where to rest. Leave your former mercies with God, but so as to improve them for God; while you doe enjoy them, commit the keeping
 of your mercies to him as well as of  your soules in well doing;  that if he change his hand towards you againe, your hearts may  not reproach you,  and say, the time was we  had a price in our hand, but wee had no heart.  Let your mercies make you more faithfull, more fruitfull; and then doubt not, but if God lead you into new troubles, if the bush be brought into the fire againe,  the good will of him that dwelt in the bush,  shall bee with you. 
 And though the Enemy, now his power is gone, sets all his Policy on work, and it may bee, hopes to effect that by the one, which hee could not by the other; Yet the  GOD of your salvation,  who hath given you these former mercies, Psal 74.14.  as the  Head of Leviathan for food  to your faith, and hath in the latter mercies, opened to you in the  Valley of Achor a doore of hope; Hos. 2.15.  I say, the same GOD who hath taken the  Lions,  will in his own time, take the
 Foxes  also;  For hee takes the wise in their owne craftinesse;  Which is the daily prayer, and shall be the constant expectation of him, 
 Who is devoted to your Service in the Gospel,  William Strong. 

