
 
 
 To the Honourable, the Knights, Citizens and Burgesses of the Commons House of Parliament, now Assembled. 
 I T was a quick answer of him to a Painter, who shewing his Picture, said he made it in a few houres, That he wondred he made not many such in that time. But its not a vain covert of my weaknesse, or idle hunting after credit, but a just expression of truth, if I say the time of my preparation of this Sermon for you, was a time of no small distraction to me. Indeed as I judged my selfe unworthy to speak in such an audience, so I wonder that any in it should so approve what was spoken, as to think it worthy of a longer life, then it had in the Pulpit. But since it must live longer then I intended, having nothing in this matter to satisfie me, but my respects
 
 
 
 
  to those to whom I owe so much, I humbly present it to your honourable acceptance. And shall still pray him, who is wisedome and Counsell, to lead you into all truth, that as great and stupendious works (wherein by the Vote of God and man, a large share of of honour is allotted to you) have been done by you his Instruments; so you may happily proceed, till your wisedome and zeal have crowned our hopes, and perfected your glory, that we and the generations yet unborne, may rejoyce in you, and blesse God for you, whom he hath raised to be the terror of his adversaries, and Saviour of his people. Go on and prosper unparalleld Worthies, you have a a noble cause, and a confluence of incouragements from God, and man. See what you have done already, and mingle your streams of joy with the flouds of all your Saints ere while drowned in tears and sorrows, but now floating in joy and triumph. Behold the Faces of the Saints, whose tears you have wiped away, and see in the light and cheerfulnesse of their vissages the blessed fruits of your goodnesse, wisedome, justice and courage. Let their reviving adde still to
  your living Spirits? What can be more solatious to a Christian Spirit, then to see the dying Saints reviving, and insolent oppressors dyi g? What better then at once, to see our Kingdom enhappied, and Christ advanced? Let your hearts feed themselves to fulnesse in these things, to you belongs a double portion. Its better to do good then to receive: we are but the Cesterns, you have the honor to be our living Springs, yet we most honor the Sea of goodnesse, who issues through you upon us. 
 I am ready for the things which I have already seen to say, as  Jacob,  when he received his sonne, as from the dead,  I have enough.  And doubtlesse, if our eyes shall be so blessed, as to see the Churches of Christ in their right order, and shining in their proper beau y and power, we shall be as those that dream. Oh that our want of love to Christ, and to each other may not deprive us of this Crown of our rejoycing. And oh that in much love and singlenesse of Spirit, all that are the reall friends of Christ, would with mutuall embraces, and conjunct hearts, heads and hands help to give birth to this glorious work. He
  were better be in his grave, who in such a season as this, is either an impediment or a shaddow. 
 Different opinions are no just excuse of dissenting affections, opinions should not be quench-coales of love, which are not destructive to life. And its ill service to augment differences beyond necessity, or to aggravate them beyond equity. The Wisedome which is from above, is peaceable; and surely love, and meeknesse, would do much to one-nes. He that will exclude all that meet not punctually in his judgement, must discard himself. Let us rather devise how farre we do, or may concenter, then studiously to stand at a distance: We shall never be wholly, one with all in all; Yea, we are very diverse from our selves. And true peace ariseth not so much from inforced uniformity, as from a Candid unanimity. He that disturbeth order, and corrupteth trueth, is unfit for a Christian fellowship. But all that embrace godlinesse and truth, and serve the peace of the Churches, may happily be copartners in each others priviledges. If this be the time of our deliverance
  (which I pray and hope) he that is Truth and Love, will teach and meeken us; and he that is Almighty, will prosper you, that this morning of hope, may rise to a clear day of joy, which is the prayer of him, who is your Honours to serve you. 
 Joseph Symonds. 

