
 
 TO THE HONORABLE, Sir  JOHN POƲLET  Knight, Son and Heir to the Right Honorable IOHN Lord POULET, Baron of  Hinton St. George,  one of the Knights of  Sommerset-shire  for this present  Parliament;  The Hope of his Family, and the Honor of his Countrey, &c. The Felicity of Heaven and Earth. 
 A S it is no mean joy to your Countrey, to see the noble spirits of ancient prowesse, and vertue, eminent in your famous progenitors, to sparkle with new vigour, in your breast; so, doth it exceedingly glad me, to view the eximious and heightned Piety of your present Parents, (the exemplarie Worthies of this Age) so likely to become Hereditary, and by a sacred   to be transmigrated to posteritie: The happy Contemplation of both which, hath anîmated me, (the issue of your Father's Beneficiary) to shrowd this poore peece of my Theologicall Essayes, under your protection: Not, that I, with  Narcissus,  can so dote upon this off-spring of my own brain, as to hold it worthy of your eyes; nor that my shallow thoughts durst swell up to so high ambition, as to think themselves competent to devise a meet present for so high an acceptation; but for that your illustrious noblenesse, as a Jewels splendor, adding grace, and lustre to some worthlesse case, can set an estimate on the lowest gift: It comes unto you, not that you (chiefly in this surfeit of the Presse) need it, but, as that Hospitable Prelate,  Alonso Cattilio,  said unto his steward, (complaining to him of the
 superfluous number of his Followers, whom yet he still meant to entertain) because it needs you; under the wings of whose countenance, and favour, it shall be sheltred, as  Tiberius  was by his Sueton. in Tiber. ca.  69.  Laurell, from all the thunderbolts of envy, or malevolence; Nor am I hopelesse (Honored Worthy) that your amiable candor, and known suavitie will vail this boldnesse, in your humble servant; who, (as the Queen of Sheba, heretofore, did  Solomon ) cannot but, (besides my own private notices) admire you, upon 1 Kin. 10.1.  Report; as being a known Patron of Piety, a  Maecenas  to Schollars, a Foe to Popery, a Champion of the Church, and a renowned Almoner to the needy: For all which, (though at so great a distance) I (however but as an  Amos  among the Amos 1.1.  Herdmen of Tekoa) can assure you, as the Martial. l.  1.  Epigr.  3.  Poet did the great man of his Time; that the severall voices of ingenuous men accord in this one harmony; Lo, a true Patriot of his Countrey.
 Vox diversa sonat, populorum est vox tamèn una, 
 Cùm verus patriae diceris esse pater.  But the eximious eminency, in this kind, is so conspicuous to all; that I shall but darken so blazing a Topaze, by my rude polishing: All I shall adde more, is that of Plin. in Paregyr.   Pliny  to  Trajan, Seria te carmina, honor{que} aeternus Annalium, non haec brevis, & pudenda praedicatio colet:  I shall leave this piece, to be better blazoned by the Heralds of Time, and embellished in the lasting Chronicles of after Ages. 
 What remains? but that I sollicite, earnestly, the throne of grace, for the accumulation of Heavens choicest favours, to be powred upon you; and with you, upon your vertuous Consort, and whole noble family; to which, that together with so ancient, and Honorable blood, the right Religion may become equally hereditary, even untill Time it self shall be no more, shall be the fervent prayers of him, who shall strive to approve himself, 
 March 2. 1641. 
 Your much devoted servant, to be commanded, WILLIAM SCLATER. 

