
 
 TO THE HONORABLE
House of Commons, Assembled
in Parliament at Westminster. 
 T He thought of coming into that Pulpit
was dreadfull to me, and I did unfainedly
decline it; 1 Sam. 10. 22.   as Saul,  I would
willingly  have hid my selfe among
the stuffe,  any where rather then undertake
the taske. Palluit ut   qui pressit calcibus anguem. Et Juvenal. Sat. 6.   Lugdunensem
Rhetor dicturus ad aram,  Did Advocates
change colour pleading at that Barre? And should
I have no feare being to speake in such a presence, where so
many of you were, and each one resembled  the children of
a King, Judg. 8. 18.   as the Kings of Midian  said to  Gideon,  in respect
of his brethren; yea upon whose votes and determinations,
depends the welfare of three glorious Kingdomes? But
being summoned to the service, it was my duty to runne and
prepare my selfe, and I found presently my lot was cast upon
that very day, which the providence of heaven had designed
 
to fall on Christmas Day, Gentilet. Exam. p. 206.  (as it is named yet)  the Metropolitane
of all the Festivities,  so  Gaspar Ferrandi
called it in the Councel of Trent;  It was time for me
then by consideration, recollection, and other thoughts to
 cast out feare; 1 Joh. 4. 8.  and for my animation, the allusion of him to
 Caesar  happily occurred, as they that dare confidently speake
in your judicious and formidable Assemblie, consider not
what  Constellations  you are, nor of what  Magnitude; 
so those, that despondingly be afraid, are ignorant of your
benigne  Aspects,  and gracious  Influences.  The election
of a  Theme,  and the manner of handling it was in my
power, and by Divine guidance I chose  Moderation,  not
because you wanted it, but for that some so supposed, and I
saw, even that  Christian grace,  well understood would justifie
your proceedings: Your eares entertained the Discourse
with spontaneous attention, with the vertue of the Text,
which  Tertullus  beg'd of  Felix, Act. 24. 4.   . you have now
required it to the other sense, to another censure,  in publicum
formidandumque judicium  as  Cassiane  said upon
his like occasion; De Incarnat. praefat.  and for my part, Pro captu Lectoris habent sua fata libelli.  though the subject matter,
I know, will meet with fatall judgings, and my weakenesses
also be ever before me, yet I have obeyed your Commands,
and with the exoptation of  Orosius  to  Austin, Utinam
tam efficaciter quam libenter: Praefat. Hist.  for now, as  Dedications 
have beene made to you of  Zeale, Righteousnesse,
Magnanimitie, Perseverance, &c.  so the world shall see
you  Patrons of Moderation also,  notwithstanding the
 unpolitique, Antichristian,  and  Tyrannicall  endevours
of your  Opposites,  some of which laboured so much some
yeares since to embroyle the Nation against  Scotland,  in irreconciliable
and intestine combustions, the perfect uniting
of whom to  ENGLAND  was the zealous industrie of the
 
wisest  Patriots  in former times, as our Chronicles relate,
and who now also, by supernaturall providence, in Covenant,
and many other obligations, are contrived into a
more firme accord then ever. Those other horrid Miscreants
of  Ireland  have raked  Hell  and  Rome  for the inventions,
and exercises of such cruel barbarities upon our miserable
brethren, King  Charles  Declarat. with the advice of his Privie Counsell.   that no Christian eare can heare without
horrour, nor Story parallel, as his Majestie did
declare against those barbarous Rebels.  I wish that
 Remonstrance  of our Clergie there were commanded to be
in every Parish of  ENGLAND,  and the  additionall depositions 
hastened to the Presse, that all the good people of
the Land might know their good meaning to them: And in
this Kingdome there was a generation of  New Reformers 
that paved the way to Popery, and under the colour of
 a good worke in hand, Holy Table, Name, and Thing,  p. 2. p. 192. p.  204.   and the pietie of the times were
busied in taking the out-workes, and that being done
they would have a bout with the Fort it selfe:  It is the
language and sentence of him that here may well be credited,
and our eyes saw then, the Innovations so numerous,
that with a little time and observation it might be demonstrated,
the lawlesse  Mutation  even then was greater from
the rules, and received practise, then it is like to be by the
 Directory  so much expected, which beside  Parliament 
Authoritie, will have the  Scriptures,  and the example of
 Reformed Churches  to give it countenance; I thought in
this Epistle I might make some further mentioning, but I
must remember that of  Austin  to  Macedonius, Negotiosissimos
in Republica viros, Ep. 54. Init.   & non suis, sed aliorum
utilitatibus attentissimos non debemus occupare prooemio: 
I will turne therefore my prefacing, into praying,
that our  God onely wise, Rom. 16. 27.  would fill every one of you with
 
 wisedome, Jam. 3. 17.   even that wisdome which is from above,
and is first pure, then peaceable, gentle,   ,  the
grace of the Text, Ruth 4. 11.   Moderate, and full of good fruits, 
that gasping  Ireland  may be recovered by you, and as you
have  done worthily  for  Scotland,  you may be  famous  in
 ENGLAND,  and regaining the  Kings royall Person and
favour,  you may make him glorious also, and  raise up  in his
Dominions  the foundations for many generations, Isa. 58. 12.   and
be called the Repairers of the breaches, the Restorers
of the paths to dwell in.  I shall waite the complement
of Gods good providence in you, and by you, that in his due
season every  mountaine  of opposition may be a  plaine, Zach. 4. 7.  and
these  troublous times  may determine in the readvancement, Dan. 9. 25. 
and firme establishing of Righteousnesse and Peace,
through your hands; which is, and shall be in the dayly devotion
of 
 Your constant Oratour at
the Throne of Grace,
THOMAS THOROVVGOOD. 

