
 
 
 TO THE HONORABLE HOUSE OF COMMONS Assembled in PARLIAMENT. 
 A S most men have censured the  Florentine,  to be  Not honest,  So I could hardly allow him (So much as in the  vulgar notion)  the name of  A Christian,  when I met with these passages in  m. One, in his Second Book,  De Republica,  cap. 29.  Si rerum vicissitudinem Contemplemur, comperiemas multa accidere ex fato ita urgente, ut iis obviam ire nemo possit, quamvis in promptu remedia fuerint.  Another to the same purpose, in his Book  De principe,  cap. 25.  Haud illud mihi obscurum est, ejus Sententia complures esse, ac olim fuisse, itae rerum humanarum procurationem à fortuna omnino, ab ipsoque dec teneri, ut ab hominum prudentia nulla ratione corrigi queat: immo nullo posse occurri remedia. Ob id existimeri posset, in iis rebus non multum laborandum esse, sed qua fortuna impellit, co
 se ferri permittendum. Haec opinio majori persuasione his nostris temporibus, propter rerum multiplicem conversionem, recepta est: quod nunquam non visae sint, quotidieque videantur mutationes, extra omnem humanam, quae possit capi, conjecturam. Hoc ego nonnunquam animo cum cogitassem, aliqua ex parte co inclinaveram sententiae. Sed ne arbitrium nostrum extinguatur, eam opinionem sequor, ut alteram nostrarum rerum partem fortunae arbitratu judicem procurari, alteram vel paulo minus administrandam relinqui. Fortunam enim montano flumini omnia prosternenti comparare soleo, quod cum praeceps fertur, inagros effunditur, arbores sternit, convellitquè domos; hinc terrae multum abripiens, alio idem illud regerit, omnia item prae se agit, omnia ejus conspectum fugitant, omnia illius furori cedunt, sublata omni, qua possit ratione reprimi: nihilominus cum tali feratur ingenio, nihil impedit, quo minus homines pacatioribus temporibus possint objicibus, aggeribusque prospicere, ut iterum exundans canalibus destuat, aut impetu. represso, tam effuse pernicioseque non feratur. Idem accidit de fortuna, quae vim suam exerit, ubi nulla adest ad resistendum instructa virtus: eò suos impetus convertit, ubi nullos aggeres, nulla impedimenta, quibus sibi obviam iri possit, novit esse extructa.  He afterwards propounds the troubles of  Italy  a little before, and about his time, as an instance of this  discourse,  in which he gives  more  to  Fate;  and yet to  Divine ordination, lesse;  then becomes one that is in profession a  Christian.  And there are others who speak of the  alterations  and  period's  of  Kingdoms,  as if they did beleeve a  Mathematicall  or  Chaldaick necessity,  or a  Stoick-fate,  both of which do subject even  God  himself, one to the  Starres,  the other to the  connexion of second Causes.  And there are some men, (whatsoever their faith be in this,) that yet are busie enough, to work by this advantage, upon  weak  and  jealous apprehensions,  which are sufficient to give countenance in the world to  pretended  and  artificiall prophesies,  which have their greatest authority from superstitious fear.  Guicciardin  gives us a notable instance of this. There were some that had given out many  Prognostications  which were purposely made
 in favour of  Charles  the Emperour, and in prejudice of the  French King  and  Nation.  These wrought so farre upon the  Marquesse  of  Saluzze,  that notwithstanding his deep ingagements to  Francis the first,  and contrary to his  own greatest interesse,  yea and to his proper  inclination  and  affection,  he fell off from his  Master  to the  Emperour,  after he had shewed his  affrightment  to his private freinds to whom he had complained of the  inevitable Miseries  which the  Fates  had prepared against  France.  But we have a clear rule in  Scripture  by which to order our selves, and suppresse our weak fears. There we learn, that all things are indeed under a  Sentence,  which carries, not a  necessity  of  coaction,  but of  Infallibility.  We subscribe to that of  David,  1  Chron.  29.11.  Thine O Lord is the greatnesse, and the power, and the glory, and the victory, and the majesty; for all that is in the heaven, and in the earth is thine: thine is the Kingdome, O Lord, and thou art exalted as head above all. Both riches and honour come of thee, and thou reighnest over all, and in thine hand is power, and might, and in thine hand it is to make great.  We finde there also the course that this  great  and  absolute Soveraigne  taketh, and constantly keepeth in the  advancing  and  ruining  of Kingdoms, which is that which  Jeremiah  tells the  King  and  Princes  of  Judah  of;  cap.  22.2.3, 4,  &c. Hear the word of the Lord, O King of Judah, that sittest upon the Throne of  David,  thou and thy servants, and thy people that enter in by these gates. Thus saith the Lord, execute yee Judgement and Righteousnesse, and deliver the spoiled out of the hand of the oppressor, and do no wrong, do no violence to the stranger, the fatherlesse, nor the widow, neither shed innocent bloud in this place. For if you do this thing indeed, then shall there enter by the gates of this house, Kings sitting upon the Throne of  David,  riding in Charets, and on horses, he, and his servants, and his people. But if yee will not hear these words, I swear by my self, saith the Lord, that this house shall become a desolation. 
 According to the tenour of these words, I have  preached righteousnesse  unto you, that you may be  established,  and that all your late  Victories  may bee confirmed unto your posterity.
 I might speak something of these  present joy   of things, in a  conjecturall  and  prudentiall  way, I am a  Protestant  in the  principles  that  distinguish  both from  Romanisus  and  Schism,  and in my  Interesse  I am a very  Englishman.  Be just in all things, and yee shall not need to fear, either  Starres,  or  Prophecies,  or  men.  Let me speak as a  Divine,  in the words of the son of  Oded,  Hear yee me in this,  The Lord is with you, while yee be with him, But if yee forsake him, he will forsake you. 
 Your faithfull, and most humble servant SAM. TORSHEL. 

