
 
 
 To the Worshipfull, my much honoured Friends,  Arthur Ʋpton  of  Lupton  in  Devon.  Esquire; And  Francis Rous  Esquire, one of the Burgesses in  PARLIAMENT  for the Towne of  Truro  in CORNVVALL. 
 Worthy Gentlemen, 
 W HEN one came to  Alexander, V.  Libanii exempla. P ogymnas. Chria.  1.  and desired him that he might see his  Treasure,  he bid one of his servants take him, and shew him, not  , his  money,  but  , his  friends.  It seems he put a higher value upon  them,  than he did upon all the  wealth  which he
 had. Dilectio Christiani nominis thesaurus Tert. de patient. c.  12.  Good friends are an unvaluable  treasure,  and the rarity of them, doth much inhaunce the price of them. The love & friendship which I have found from you, hath stampt in my  affections  a very high  valuation  of  you;  and among other friends which  God  hath given me, I must ever reckon  you  among  those  of the first  magnitude.  The confidence I have in you, in your love to those  truths,  which this  sermon  holds forth, hath imboldned me to make it publique under your  names;  J shall not much trouble my thoughts with what  censures  others may pass upon it, so it carries the mark of your  acceptance: I  will say of that, as  Libanius  did of the Commendation, which  Basil  gave him,  ,
 if you (and such as you are) shall like well of it, Liban. in Epist ad Basilium.  it will over-master the opinions of other men. For my own part,  I  never preached it, neither do  I  now print it with any hopes or desires to please all: Salv. ad Eccles. Cath. li.  4.   Mirum esset si hominibus loquentia de Deo verba non placeant, quibus ipse forsitan Deus non placet;  'Twere very strange, if  I  should please a world of men, when  God himselfe  doth not give every one content; and if I should but offer to please  Men, 1 Gal. 10.  my  Master  would quickly discard me, and I should be no longer the servant of  Christ. 
 I know St.  Paul  else-where strikes in with his  , 1 Cor. 10.33  I please all men in all things, but then we must take
 him,  Cum grano salis,  his all things must come under  omnia licent,  All lawfull things, or (which is more genuine to the Text) All indifferent things, Mr.  Barys Serm. in loc.  where  God  hath left us in  Bivio,  without expresse, or implicite command. But I can no where find that ever St.  Paul  did forbeare to speak necessary  truths  (though it were oftentimes to his own prejudice) or else speak them coldly and faintly, 1 Titus 13.   . Tremel. durè.  Beza  praetise in Annotat. Rigide qrasm. sever ter, & in Anotat. ad vivum. & severe Gen. note,  rough¦ly & plain¦ly, and goe not about the Bush with them.  for fear of  angring  or  displeasing  men.  I  am sure he gives it in charge to  Titus,  when hee had to deale with those peccant  Cretians,  that he should rebuke thē sharply, cuttingly, do it to the quick; for look as  Oyle  feeds the fire which is quenched by other  liquors,  so many times a sweet oyly loving  Reproofe,  makes
 some men the more cholerick, and the gentlier they be handled, (like  Nettles ) the worse they  sting.  It wil therefore ill-beseem any  Minister  of  Christ,  to let  flattery  take the wall and inside of  plain-dealing,  or make the  truth  of  God  to Lacquie up and down after the  humors  of men. For my own part I am yet to learn that piece of  parasitical Divinity,  & in this  ignorance  I hope both to live and die. 
 I have no more to say, but to desire the  God  of  heaven,  stil to supply you with all those  graces  w ch  may continue you serviceable  instruments  of his glory, that you may stil do worthily in  Ephratah,  and be famous in  Bethlehem, 4 Ruth 11   which shall be the dayly Paryer of  him,  who is, 
 Yours,  with his best  abilities  to serve  you, THO. TRESCOT. 

