
 
 
 To the truly vertuous, and no lesse honourable Lady, the Lady  E. B.  Wife to Sir  W. B.  Baronet. 
 THe deep sense, as well of my own proper, as of the common obligations of my poore friends unto your Ladiships charitable Bounty, hath moved me to addresse this little  Treatise  of  Christian Doctrine  to your perusall and  Patronage;  partly for a Pledge of our respectfull gratitude; and partly for a testimony of your exemplar & excelling vertues, which never have appeared more conspicuous, then in this dark and
  ftormy time of  Persecution,  in which they alwayes yeelded to your selfe, a plentifull light to see and discerne the  Vta Lactea,  or white way of Heaven, and the revealed verities of  Christ,  from the black way which leadeth unto Hell, and the fictirious Novelties of  Antichrist,  shining like a bright and stedfast landmark to all your wavering and weather-beaten Neighbours, to guide them to the haven of Security. 
 Nor can I doubt of your acceptance of it, who have so chearfully exhibited your selfe not onely a  religious Professor,  but also an  indefatigable Sufferer  for all the  Articles  conteined in it. Witnesse the many  Robberies 
  and  plunders  acted against you under that onely notion since the late  unnatur all war.  Witnesse your own captivity at  Cannon-Froome,  a cruelty not usuall to your sexe. Witnesse the arbitrary and most illegall  Sequestration  of your whole estate. Witnesse your long deprivement and separation from your  beloved Husband  and deare Children; whose sole  Malignity  is  Christianity;  whose  delinquency  is nothing else but  loyalty.  All which notwithstanding have beene by you imbraced and susteined with such a Masculine Courage and  Christian confidence;  that you have caused much  confusion  to your  enemies,  and singular  consolation  to your  friends,  by
  turning that which was intended for your temporall depression, into the greatest improvement of. your Soule, and highest pitch of spirituall advancement both to your Name and Family. 
 What shall I say of these your  gallant trialls?  of these your  stigma's  received for the Faith? I will say onely what S.  Paul  said in a like case, That  in the same measure you are partaker of the passions, you shall be also of the consolations of Christ,  2 Cor ch. 1. v. 7. 
 I will give onely this  Elogium  to the whole catalogue of your  pressures  &  perfections,  That you are now truly a  Christian,  one that may worthily say with
  the  Apostle, I am fastened with Christ unto the crosse.  One who have written on your life and actions in lively  characters  of self-denying  patience,  that  holy Doctrine,  which I here present you impressed in characters of  ink  and  paper. 
 Accept it therefore as your owne  Epitome,  that as the world hath seen your sufferings, so it may see in this for what you suffer. 
 Do but deigne it the protection of your Piety, and it will yeeld you the protection of its Sanctity. 
 Doe but persevere in the practice of it unto the end in the same measure that you have begun, and it will bring you safe
  to the fruition of the first Master and Teacher of it, JESUS; which is the constant wish, and daily Prayer, of 
 Madam,  
 Your Ladiships humble Beadsman, and devoted Servant,  H. T.   Aprill 1. 1648. 

