
 
 
 TO
The Right VVorshipfull
Sir ROBERT SHIRLEY
Knight Baronet,
And to his vertuous consort the
Lady CATHARINE SHIRLEY,
the Authour wisheth all happines,
externall, internall, and
eternall. 
 Rt. Wor. 
 H Ad not the importunity
of friends prevailed with
me, I had never published
this Sermon preached
at the solemnization
of the funerall  obsequies, 
of your Noble brother, Sir
Charles) for I was never so well conceited
of the product of my weak brain,
as to deem it worthy publique view. 
 If Moses the authour of my Text, Exod. 4. 10. 
 
professed that he was not eloquent,
that he was slow of speech, and unapt
for so great employment as he was called
to: I am sure I have ten thousand
thousand times more cause to disclaime
eloquence and to acknowledge my
owne weakenesse, and unworthinesse;
yet this is my comfort  Innocentia melior
eloquentiâ Quintilian.  innocence is better then
eloquence; a good cause better then a
good oratour. 
 This little Manuall or Enchiridion I
am sure will be censured, and I feare
more then practiced: Scrinia damagnis, me manus una capit.  Mar. lib. 1. epig.  2.  one perhaps
will quarrell with the stile, another with
the method, and others with the matter,
but let such know that I seeke not the
suffrages of their praise or approbation,
 Candor in hoc ae o in ermortua  enc,  Ovid  e pont. lib.  . elig.  .    non ego  entosae  lebis suf ragia ve or.  Ho a. lib. 1. ep. 9. Lucian.  who like summer  lyes breath corruption
on the best provision: the malignity
of whose wit, can find fault with
the best actions, not onely of men, but
of God also, as Lucians  Momus,  who
 
being called to judge of the excellency
of those master peeces the gods had
made,  (scil.)  a man, a house and a horse,
found fault withal three, with the horse,
that it had not hornes for defence, with
the house, that it had not motion, and
with the man, that he had not a window
to look into his breast: even so these
malevolent censurers criticise with a
froward curiosity upon the best and purest
volumnes, and often times fill and
blot them with their own Astericks and
errata's. And where a candid censure
might of every thing make a good construction,
and take all in a faire sense,
there will they through misconstruction
or some idle conjecture, though to
the fullest period, adde, a  nonnulla
desiderantur,  that something is wanting,
or that it might have beene better
done otherwise. Insomuch that it is even
a taske for divinity to please man,
 . Non   cun  tis place  vel Jupi ter ipse Nec mi tens pluv am,  retinens  pluviam.  not that this argues any weaknesse in
 
God who is able to do all things, but a
perversnesse in mans nature that will be
content with nothing. 
 If therefore such find fault, it shall
not trouble me; if any be contentious,
we have no such custome, nor the
Church of God. 1 Corin. 11. 16. 
 The more ingenious, are more courteous,
 Unus Plato plus est quam Atheniensis populus.  , in vita  lat.  together with whom, so
your Wor. continues your approbation
of it, I shall thinke my selfe happy in
my labours; magnum  oc ego  luco,  ood pla ui tibi, qui tu pi  ecernis  oncstum  H rat-Ser . lib. 2.  .  6.  and acknowledge your
favour herein, to be farre transcending
my merit; the best of whose endeavors
cannot deserve the influence of so noble
a protectour. 
 It is a good rule that in dedicating
books, we should be sure that the thing
be worthy the person to whom it is dedicated. e exhortor moneoque libelle, ut docto placeas  Apolli . 
 I will not say this is such, Mart. lib. 4. epig. 87. Da mihi  te placidum, ingenium vultu starque caditque tuo.  Ovid fast. lib  1.  mmensa subit cura ut quae tibi dicantur te digna sint.  lin. praef in Hi at.   Vesp. imperat.  In hoc faci unt slult quos gloria vexa inanis.  because
I am conscious to my selfe of much
weaknesse and unworthinesse: yet you
 
will the more magnifie your owne
worth by receiving so small a mite into
your so noble patrociny. 
 I shall forbeare much Apologizing,
for your protection of this ensuing Sermon,
having had assurance thereof already
from you, at your house in Staunton;
my humble suite is, that you will
pardon my demerits, and at your best
leasure peruse it, and I trust that as God
hath endowed you with a great temporall
estate on earth, so you may by these
my weake endeavours be excited to labour
for, and diligently seek after, an eternall
inheritance in the kingdome of
heaven. 
 The motto anexed to your coate of
armes is,  A Eterna prapon  caducis,  a d
indeed it is the s mme of my exhortations,
in the ensuing Sermon. 
 Be pleased therefore to  emember
what you in that motto professe. Prefer
heavenly above earthly things, set your
 
affections on things above, and not on
things beneath; take heed to your
selves, and keep your soules diligently.
But the volumne is so small, that I must
make the preface suitable, lest the City
run out of the gates, as the Philosophers
jeered the men of Myndum. .  acrt. de  it. Philos.  ib. 6. 
 I shall therefore conclude with that
of Saint Paul to the Thessalonians,
1 Ep. 3 ch. 12. & 13. ver. the Lord make
you encrease and abound in love one
towards another, and towards all men,
to the end he may establish your hearts
unbl mable, in holinesse before God
our father, even at the comming of our
Lord Jesus Christ with all his Saints:
which is and shall be the hearty and
constant prayer of 
 Your most
humble servant, IOHN WILSON. 

