
 
 
 THE  EPISTLE DEDICATORY.  TO The disobedient Army under the Conduct of Sir THOMAS FAIRFAX. 
 Much to be lamented Gentlemen and Soldiers, 
 I T greives your freinds and glads your enemies, that you who have been famous for your victories should now become infamous for your disobedience: It may be said of your practises, as it was of the writings of Origen,  ubi bene, nemo melius, ubi male nemo pejus:  what things he did wel, none did better; wherein he did ill, none did worse; the same may be said of you, whiles you did wel in obeying the Parliament, encountring with your enemies, none did better; but when once you did ill, in disobeying the Commands of this state you serve; and in picking quarrels with your freinds when you had no enemies to fight withall, in this none did worse. It hath made me wonder that you whose Tenets are, you must not fight for Religion, should stretch your Consciences so far on the tenter-hook of your own designs, as to fight against it: I know most of your Persons, and have read all your Papers with a bleeding heart and weeping eye, my very soul mourning in secret for the proud and imperious language; vain and carnal confidence, Peremptory and high demands, weak and groundless jealousies, sinful and ungodly compliance (with all parties to carry on your own) which is scattered up and down throughout all your papers; Lies have been your refuge, and under falshood have you hid your selves. That your selves and the Kingdom might see I do
 you no wrong, I shal produce your own party and Papers, to give palpable Demonstration to all the world, that you have contrived and carried on your designs with falshood and deceit. From your Party I might evince it thus; did not  Cromwel  (your great Ringleader into  Disobedience ) solemnly protest and promise upon his life and honor many times and oft in the House of Commons, Cromwels  Promise falsified.   that the Army should disband and lay down all their Arms at their door, when ever the House Commanded them?  now whether your papers agree with his promise, the world wil witness. It seems he can take that liberty of Conscience with the Papist to promote the Catholique cause,  per fas et nafas,  by right means or wrong, by truth or falshood: This palpable breach of  Cromwels  ingagement makes all indifferent men beleive that this promise of obedience was only made; that your purpose of disobedience might be the less suspected, and the practise of it the more easily promoted. Is not this like the practise of  Garnet  and  Jesuite,  who (a little before the powder-plot was to be acted) did lay his Commands on the Papists to obey their King, and keep themselves quiet? and all was that the plot might not be suspected. If  Cromwel  follow  Garnets  steps, I would have him take heed of  Garnets  end. 2. The falshood of your Papers I could declare in many particulars, which I wil scan and survey in this following Treatise; I shal in my Epistile instance in one Palpable falshood only. In your letter to the Lord Mayor, Aldermen, and Common Councel of the City of London: These in breif are our desires and the things for which we stand, beyond which we shal not go. See the Letter from  Sir Thomas Fairfax  and the cheif Commanders in the Army to the  Lord Major,  Aldermen and Common-Council of the City of London Dated from  Royston, June  10. 1647. P. 4 li. 14.  you signify what your desires are, and the things for which you stand, beyond which you promise you shal not go. And in your  See the Declaration from  Sir Thomas Fairfax  and the Army from St.  Albanes. June  1 . 1647. P 12. l. 29.  Declaration 4. daies after this you have these words.  There are besides these many particular things which we could wish to be done, and some to be undone; but these proposals afore-going present, being the principal things we bottome and insist upon, we shal (as we have said before)  acquiesce  for other particulars in the justice and wisedom of the Parliament.  In which words I cannot but give you to take notice both of Pride and falshood. 1. Pride, in that in some particulars only you wil acquiesce in the wisedom and justice of the parliament, in other things it seems you wil not; Touching those proposals in your Declaration you wil not acquiesce in the justice and wisedom of the House; in those you seem your selves the most Competent judges on intollerable pride! 2. The falshood of those words appear in
 this; although you bound up your selves by promise, that beyond your desires exprest in your letter, Dated 10. of  June,  and your Proposals in your Declaration at St.  Albanes, June  14. you would not go, but acquiesce in the justice and wisedom of the Parliament for other particulars; yet have you since the time you made that promise imperiously demanded, and Peremptorily insisted upon about 20. Particular Proposals more, in your Humble Remonstrance, dated  June  23. and in your manifesto dated  June  27. and in other Papers. Thus have you made lies your Refuge, and under falshood have you hid your selves. Having thus dealt plainly with you, I shal now retire into a corner and weep for you, and that upon these 4. Considerations. 
 1. Considering the Temptations you lie under at this day. Your selves confess it in the opinion and humble advice of the Councel of War at  Bury,  29 of  May  1647. pag. 7. line ult. Oh 'tis the houre of your Temptation; the Temptation that I conceive lies upon you, is this; that you have many of you been used so long to Command that you have forgotten to obey; that many of you from deep penury have aspired to gainful offices, and from being cloathed in raggs, are now arrayed in Scarlet; this I fear wil be a prevailing Temptation upon you to make you unwilling to disband, knowing that then you must return to your obscure dwellings and callings, to be Tinkers, Tapsters, Taylors, Tanker-bearers, Porters, Coblers, Bakers, and other such mean trades, of which you could not subsist before these wars. 
 2. Considering the Designs you drive at; among many this is the summ of your desires, to new-mould the House of Commons; which you call purging (but others think corrupting) the House. Oh then M.  Peters  would be busy abroad to get in some famous Common-wealths-men, such as  Hughson  the Shoo-maker,  Hobson  the Taylor,  Quarterman  the Marshal. These in your account would be faithful Members in the House of Commons. 
 3. Considering the indirect means you use to drive on your designs, and that by fraud falshood, stattery, and Compliance with all sorts of men. Comply you do with the King to permit his malignant Chaplins to come to him, and have common prayers read before him, contrary to the order of both Houses; Comply basely you do with malignants: a new smooth tearm for them you have
 in your Remonstrance found out; least you should displease them too much in calling them Malignants: therefore you call them the  Kings late Partakers, See humble Remonstra. P. 12. l. 27.  and desire for them more then ever they durst desire for themselves. Doubtless these helpers shal be your shame and ruin, as the reeds of  Aegypt,  shal they be unto you to fayl and wound you. 
 4. Considering the ill Consequences that either have or may fall out. as 1. Have not you strengthned the hands of the wicked, and greived the hearts of the godly wise? 2. Have not you stirred up a spirit of disobedience in many people of the land against the Parliament? 3. Have not you rendred the Parliament base and low before the people? 4. Have not you countenanced and encouraged all the  desperate Sectaries  in the Kingdom? 5. Have not you blemisht and contemned a godly and  Orthodox  Ministry, and encouraged illiterate mecanick unworthy fellows to preach, where, and when, and what they list? 6. Have not you permitted all scandalous Ministers, that wil, to read the Common-prayer-book within your quarters? 7. Have not you hardned the Kings heart in his former wayes, in allowing him his seducing Chaplains who have caused him to erre; and to have as free a use, within your quarters, of the Common-prayer-book, as ever he had when he was at  White-hall?  8. Have not you exceedingly retarded the releif of  Ireland;  had you not rather to pick quarrels with your freinds here, then to fight with your enemies there? 9. Hath not your approach to London raised the price of Provisions, and interrupted the Trade of this City, above 200000. l.  weekly? These inconveniences we have already felt, what yet we may further undergo the Lord knows. I have no more to say, but to Commend this following subject to your Patronage, wherein I shal endeavour to set forth to the world and your own Consciences, the Dangerousness of your designs, the unreasonableness of your demands, together with some new  Queries  to your Consciences. in the mean time rest, 
 Your humble Servant, if you wil not presume to be the Kingdoms Masters,  Tom Tell-troth. 

