
 
 
 To the Right VVorshipfull Master Thomas
Clarke, and Master Thomas Cart, Bailiffes
of TEUKSBURIE:
And
To Master William Wilson, Master William Croste, Master Thomas
Hale, Mr. Theoph: Ally Mr. Iohn Millington, Mr. Henry Lane,
Mr. Thomas Clarke junior, Mr. Edward Phelps; and to all
the rest of the well affected to King and
Parliament there:
Iohn Ward wisheth true peace and freedome here,
and ete l felicity hereafter. 
 R Ight Worshipfull, and the rest of my friends and acquaintance,
I here present you with a short Relation of the taking of Winchester;
which is (though easily accomplisht, yet) worth the hearing.
I confesse these are not times for men to spend in writing
or reading Histories: But this being matter of discouragement
to the foe, and of great encouragement to us, I thought good to
divulge: and so much the rather, because I know it hath beene published already
by a false Copie, which mentions the enemies issuing out of the City to meet us;
which is no such matter, and deserveth a checke rather then approbation. Worthy
Gentlemen, the respect and duty that I owe to you all, doth enforce me to make this
Dedication to you, knowing you all to be Patrons to all vertuous actions, in the
Towne where I was borne, and well-wishers to me: and therefore I presume, that
though it be but slenderly compos'd, (the Subject being a known truth, and I your
native Countriman as well in affection as by birth) you will with the more tendernesse
passe by any blurre committed in the penning thereof, and censure more favourably
of my blunt and weake expressions. And no question but that you (setting
Winchester before you for an example) will with the more courage and unwearied
resolution defend your (yet unplunder'd) Corporation from the barbarous
cruelty, and from the ambitious pride and insolency of so destructive an enemy;
who if he once enters will leave you nothing to take pleasure in, but the ruines of
an once flourishing Corporation. Thus barring complements, I remaine your must
affectionate and faithfull friend, 
 John Ward. 

