
 
 
 TO HIS HONOURED FRIEND, that pious Gentleman, Mr.  John Ash,  a worthy Member of the honourable House of Commons in this present Parliament. 
 Worthy Sir, 
 H Annibal  being to encounter with  Minutius  in the vale, Liv. hist Polyb.  was not so much daunted with the present enemy, as with  Fabius Maximus,  who faced him on a mountain in the Reare; and
 therefore said, hee feared that cloud hovering aloft, would ere long poure down upon him. It was not our enemies neer at hand I feared, being over-powered by our Forces, as that Western cloud, which like  Elijahs  of a handfull increased so as to overspread the face of our countrey; and against the expectation of the wisest, poured downe our next Munk.  on Ferdy in Wilts.  adjacent hill, and as a confluence of many waters, drove all resistance before it. Hereby it came to passe, that the place where I lived, became like that place to which  Paul  & his companie were driven, Acts 27.4.  where two seas met; so that by the stronger waters the Bark of my estate was, with some of my best neighbours, in a moment, swallowed up, and carried away. Yet in this danger, notwithstanding the earnest enquirie of the enemy after me, and as earnest pursuit, God gave me my life as a prey to my selfe. Now
 after my escape, having got into a private Sanctuary, my sad spirit unfit for publick exercises, studied this Text which the enemies had given me, and from my losses by them gained this Manuell of Meditations, usefull for my selfe and others in these times of losing, which were composed by me in as much danger as  Archimedes  was in drawing his lines when the city was befieged. Made by me at the siege of Glocester.  Admire you may at first my boldness, why (considering my small acquaintance with you) I should dedicate this poor peece unto you; but if you consider all, you might otherwise admire my unthankfulness. For, Sir, you may remember, (unless the multitude of your liberality to others make you forgetfull) how that some years since I did largely partake of your bounty; wherein I know not whether your gift, or the manner of giving, exceeded, which was so farre from ostentation, that I
 dare say your left hand knew not what your right hand did, seeing you had no distinct knowledg of the receiver, nor would you be known to be the giver, till some moneths after an earnest desire of shewing my selfe thankfull, prevailed with the messenger to discover such a hidden friend unto me. But besides private respects, your activenesse for the publick good, as well in the City as Countrey, and your patience under great private losses, doe challenge all respect from your Countreymen. As you have done much for Christ, so have you suffered much, not only by the Prelates heretofore, but by their supporters now. In these evill times few great men are good, and therefore good great men should be great in the esteem of others. Sad experience demonstrates, how too many of the nobler & richer sort endevour to make themselves by undoing others, and strive to erect a Babell of
 their own estates, by the ruine of many families. It was an observation of the Historian, speaking of the Civill warres of  Caesar  and  Pompey, Cluver. Oros. ii. 6. c. 4. c. 4.  that  Nemo sanctus injuriam privatam patriae subversione vindicandam duceret.  Yet how few such men, or such behaviours are to be found among us, our countries in the West doe lametably shew, which by the continued Cres cente per rapinas stud to & voluprate rapiendi. Cluveri Hist. mund. p, 230.  rapine and cruelty of those sons of  Belial,  of a Garden of  Eden,  are made like a desolate wildernesse. The Lord of Hosts did lately raise an Army for the help of those parts, but he denied his blessing on the designe; not onely because the instruments were unworthy to deliver, but because the country was unfit for deliverance; especially that Heathenish country of  Cornwal  (where God did break our arm of flesh) who are a people that ever since the light of the Gospel did first break out among
 us, under the reigne of Camb den Britan.   Lucius  our first Christian King, have hated to be reformed; and therefore have openly opposed They did ever give voyce for the Papall continuance, Speed. Histor. p. 1090. col. 2. line ult.  all publick Reformation of the Church, as not long since that in  Edward  the sixth his dayes, so this now, as if that malignant spirit against the Gospel, and their blind zeale for their  Diana,  were traduced to them from their progenitors. Our hope and comfort is, that when the Ephah of the enemies sins is full, the harvest ripe, that then the Lord will put in his sickle and avenge himselfe of his adversaries; that though an Eastern wind could not cleare the countrey of those Locusts, yet a Northeast under God shall: twice did Israel flie before  Benjamin,  but the third time they prevailed. Goe on therefore, worthy Sir, and doe worthily in  Ephraim,  and be more famous in  Bethlehem,  with draw not your shoulder from upholding
 the tottering frame of this Kingdome, and you may assure your selfe of what that good Patriot  Nehemiah  desired,  viz.  that the Lord would remember him for all the good be did to that people. Encouragements hereto you have enough, if you consider how God hath blessed you with blessings of heaven above, with blessings of the earth beneath, with blessings of the breast and womb. Perhaps the Lord may borrow some of these blessings of you, but doubt not of his repayment, the promise whereof is a hundred fold with tribulation here, and hereafter eternall life. This I beleeve you will account as performed, when the Lord shall turn our captivitie, drive out those Canaanites, and bring us to our countrey again; till which time, and for which mercy incessantly supplicates, 
 Your obliged servant in the Lord,  John Warner. 

